 Hello  to  your  gardeners.  I  know  right 
 now  um  you  are  seeing  such  devastation 
 in  your  gardens.  Um  this  last  week's 
 freeze  was  just  catastrophic.  It  was  was 
 like  the  weather  just  threw  out  all  the 
 USDA  plant  zones  and  just  said  whatever. 
 Everybody's  freezing  this  year  and  um  it 
 it's  it's  pretty  devastating.  So  I 
 wanted  to  do  a  short  video  even  though 
 I'm  not  home.  I  am  on  my  family 
 vacation.  Um,  we  go  skiing  every  year 
 and  we  are  here  and  oddly  enough,  it's 
 warmer  here  than  it  is  in  Florida.  But, 
 um,  I  know  that  we're  all  facing  um, 
 just  the  the  worry  of  what's  happening 
 in  our  outdoor  spaces  that  we've 
 created,  these  beautiful  paradises  and 
 gardens  that  we've  put  so  much  time, 
 money,  and  effort  into,  and  you're 
 wondering  what  next,  what  to  do  now,  how 
 to  recover.  And  so,  I  thought  I  would 
 shoot  a  short  video  just  to  explain  to 
 you  guys  what  I  plan  to  do  day  one  when 
 I  get  home  and  more  importantly,  what 
 not  to  do.  So  hopefully  that  helps  you 
 guys  and  myself  on  the  same  path  to 
 getting  and  helping  our  gardens  um 
 reestablish.  So  the  first  thing  um  I'd 
 like  to  mention,  more  than  likely  you're 
 seeing  wilting  on  your  plants,  you're 
 seeing  browning  on  your  fronds.  Um  palm 
 trees  are  usually  safer  in  these  pulp 
 snaps.  However,  to  add  insult  to  injury, 
 mother  nature  threw  massive  winds  our 
 way.  So  our  taller  palm  trees  got  hit 
 just  as  hard  as  our  smaller  material, 
 unfortunately  this  year.  and  um  it 
 caused  a  lot  of  devastation.  If  your 
 palm  trees  are  still  upright,  if  they're 
 still  upright  like  this  and  they  have 
 not  sagged  or  the  head  or  canopy  has  not 
 tilted  like  this,  that  is  a  good  sign. 
 Now,  there  is  still  time  to  come. 
 Sometimes  it  does  take  time  for  these 
 everything  to  really  come  into  effect. 
 You  kind  of  don't  know  the  real  damage 
 for  I  would  say  a  good  3  to  four  weeks. 
 By  that  point,  you  really  know  what's 
 going  to  make  it  and  what's  not  going  to 
 make  it.  And  I'll  kind  of  go  into  detail 
 about  that  on  your  palm  trees.  Um  if  you 
 see  of  course  the  tilt  unfortunately 
 that  tree  is  pretty  much  a  goner.  The 
 crown  of  the  tree  is  where  the  strength 
 of  the  tree  is.  So  once  that  center  that 
 center  crown  if  it  starts  to  tilt  bend 
 or  fall  over  it's  done.  The  whole  tree 
 will  follow  along  suit  very  shortly.  Um 
 if  it  is  still  upright  and  even  if 
 everything  around  it  is  brown  there  is  a 
 good  chance  that  it's  going  to  come 
 back.  So  it  does  take  months  and  months. 
 So,  we're  we're  talking  June,  July,  by 
 the  time  you  see  a  new  crown  of  fronds 
 coming  through.  But  by  that  point,  that 
 tree  will  shed  those  older  leaves  if 
 it's  a  sh  self-cleaning  tree.  If  not, 
 you  can  cut  them  off.  Um,  but  you'll  see 
 all  new  green  fronds  coming  out.  Then 
 you'll  know,  of  course,  that  tree  was 
 salvageable.  That  tree  made  it.  So,  um, 
 so  that's  going  to  be  the  case  even  with 
 plant  material.  Plant  material  right 
 now,  you're  you're  still  seeing  the 
 beginnings  of  the  frost.  As  things  start 
 to  warm  up,  you're  going  to  see  that  the 
 next  part  of  the  ugly  part  of  the  frost, 
 which  means  that  those  plants  are  going 
 to  continue  to  wilt  down  and  turn  brown. 
 Um,  and  over  the  next  few  weeks,  that'll 
 you'll  kind  of  start  to  see  if  it's 
 going  to  have  any  kind  of  strength  if  it 
 pops  back.  Same  situation,  they'll 
 really  start  to  mound  down,  sometimes 
 completely  fall  over,  and  then  never 
 regain  that  that  kind  of  upright  look  to 
 them.  So,  um,  you  can  in  about  3  weeks 
 just  take  your  fingernail  and  scratch 
 the  lower  sections  of  the  the  the 
 trunks,  the  little  stems  on  each  of  the 
 bushes  or  or  plants.  And  then  if  it's 
 still  green  in  there,  that  mean  it's 
 still  that  means  it's  still  alive.  So, 
 don't  give  up  hope,  but  do  nothing  yet. 
 You  want  to  wait  until  I  would  say  I 
 would  say  mid  mid  mid  to  late  March.  I 
 know  that  seems  like  a  lot,  but  right 
 now  you're  trying  to  avoid  stressing  the 
 plant  further  and  having  that  old  growth 
 on  there  normally  could  take  tension  and 
 put  effort  onto  the  plant  or  the  tree, 
 but  right  now  it's  adding  protection. 
 Right  now,  it's  adding  a  little  bit  of 
 security  to  that  plant  and  that  tree. 
 So,  leave  it  in  place  for  a  few  more 
 weeks  and  let  it  let  it  do  its  thing. 
 Let  it  kind  of  hibernate  the  new  the  the 
 the  good  growth  hibernate  under  the  old 
 growth.  So,  um  but  what  you  can  do  right 
 now  um  would  be  to  water.  So,  normally 
 this  time  of  the  year,  I  have  my  water 
 set  to  three  days  a  week  for  maybe  15 
 minutes  a  zone.  But  right  now,  after  the 
 cold  snap,  you're  going  to  want  to 
 revamp  that.  You're  going  to  kind  of 
 want  to  give  those  roots,  those  give 
 those  stems  a  lot  of  a  moisture,  a  lot 
 of  a  lot  a  little  bit  of  help.  So,  go 
 ahead  and  pop  that  water  on  for  every 
 single  day  for  15  minutes  if  you're  on 
 an  irrigation  system.  If  you're  not,  go 
 ahead  and  hand  water  not  necessarily  the 
 top  of  the  plants,  but  down  below  at  the 
 base  if  you  can.  If  you're  hand  watering 
 and  you're  going  to  do  that,  go  ahead 
 and  water  down  below  at  the  base  because 
 what  we're  trying  to  do  is  get  those 
 roots  that  are  still  active,  that  are 
 still  alive.  Get  them  to  pop  back  and 
 get  them  to  to  start  realizing,  okay, 
 we're  swelling  with  new  with  new  life 
 here,  and  then  they're  going  to  really 
 really  take  hold  to  that.  Now,  that 
 being  said,  with  with  water  comes 
 fungus.  So,  so  knowing  that  you  have  to 
 vamp  up  the  water  also  means  that  you 
 need  to  protect  your  new  plants  and  your 
 trees.  So,  hit  it  with  a  liquid  copper 
 fungicide  right  away.  So,  this  week  when 
 I  get  home,  I  get  home  in  two  days,  I'm 
 going  to  hit  everything  with  a  liquid 
 copper  fungicide.  I'll  put  the  link  in 
 the  description  of  the  product  that  I 
 use.  So,  that  might  be  helpful  to  you 
 guys.  But,  you  definitely  want  to  take 
 it  and  um  and  I  put  it  in  a  a  backpack 
 sprayer.  If  you  have  a  hand  sprayer  or 
 whatever,  use  the  mixture  that  says  that 
 that  that  tells  you  on  the  bottle.  And 
 then  um  spray  the  whole  tree,  not  just 
 the  canopy.  Spray  from  the  base  all  the 
 way  up  to  the  center  of  the  tree.  like 
 you're  painting  the  whole  tree.  So,  you 
 want  to  do  that  and  do  the  same  thing 
 with  the  plants.  Just  really  get  a  good 
 coating  over  top  of  everything  with  that 
 liquid  copper  fungicide.  And  um  if  you 
 can  do  that  right  away  as  the 
 temperatures  warm  up,  you're  going  to 
 get  great  success.  I  cannot  wait  to  get 
 home  to  do  that  because  I  know  with  that 
 heat  rolling  in,  it's  really  going  to  do 
 just  just  a  it's  going  to  do  an  extra, 
 you  know,  wham  bam,  thank  you,  ma'am,  to 
 my  plants  and  trees  because,  you  know, 
 the  cold  and  then  the  and  then  the 
 warmth  running  through  is  just  going  to 
 is  going  to  be  tough  on  your  on  your 
 plants  and  trees.  So,  the  best  thing  you 
 can  do  is  kind  of  combat  that  as  early 
 as  possible.  So,  go  ahead  and  hit  that 
 with  some  extra  water,  liquid  copper 
 fungicide,  and  then  just  wait  at  that 
 point.  the  week  after  the  week  after  um 
 you've  been  watering  every  day.  You've 
 you  hit  it  with  that  that  fungicide,  you 
 you're  you're  kind  of  things  are  just 
 probably  very  little  change,  but  you're 
 you're  getting  into  that  second  week 
 time  frame.  That  is  the  time  to  hit  it 
 with  a  pesticide  treatment.  Um  when 
 things  are  weak,  when  your  plants  and 
 trees  in  the  garden  really  weaken  out, 
 that's  when  the  bugs  come  running. 
 That's  when  all  the  pests,  the  bugs,  the 
 infestations,  all  of  that  kind  of  starts 
 to  take  hold.  So,  um,  that  is  the 
 perfect  time  to  hit  it  with  a  I  use 
 bifon  it.  You  can  use  neem  oil  or  any 
 other  organic  solution  that  you  like. 
 Um,  I  just  like  to  hit  it  with  a  really 
 hard-hitting  product.  So,  I'm  going  to 
 use  bifon  it  when  I  get  home  on  my 
 plants.  You  can  use  it  as  a  drench  if 
 it's  just  a  certain  one  or  two  or  three 
 um,  big  species  of  plants  or  trees.  Um, 
 but  if  it's  a  big  garden  like  mine  is, 
 I'm  going  to  use  a  spray  bottle.  So,  I 
 use  an  ounce  of  that  mixed  in  with  a 
 gallon  of  water  and  then  just  spray 
 everything.  just  like  if  I  were  using 
 the  fungicide,  I'm  just  going  to  hit 
 everything,  the  inside  of  the  plants  and 
 trees,  the  just  just  the  whole  thing. 
 Um,  and  get  a  a  really  good  coverage  on 
 that  because  that's  going  to  be  one  of 
 those  things  that's  one  less  thing  that 
 your  plant  your  tree  has  to  fight  back 
 against  while  it's  trying  to  recover. 
 Um,  just  think  of  these  plants  who  just 
 kind  of  trying  to  give  them  some  flu 
 remedies  as  they're  kind  of  recovering 
 from  their  this  poor  incident  that 
 they're  dealing  with.  So,  um,  that's 
 going  to  give  you  a  big  big  big  impact. 
 So,  um  I  mean  a  big  big  benefit  for  um 
 getting  them  off  to  a  really  good  start. 
 A  lot  of  times  I  hear  people  all  over 
 the  place  say  fertilize  is  the  time  to 
 fertilize  and  give  your  plants  and  trees 
 some  nutrients.  That's  too  much.  You're 
 going  to  really  um  push  way  too  much  um 
 energy  towards  your  plants  and  trees  and 
 they're  just  not  ready  for  that.  They're 
 still  kind  of  coming  out  of  their 
 dormcancy.  They're  really  recovering.  Do 
 not  fertilize  at  this  point.  You  kind  of 
 want  to  wait  until  things  really  warm  up 
 on  a  consistent  level  to  fertilize.  So, 
 I'm  probably  not  going  to  hit  my 
 fertilizer  until  late  May,  early  April 
 um  to  really  kind  of  get  that  that  um 
 get  it  into  a  safe  spot.  The  one  thing  I 
 don't  know  if  I  stressed  enough  in  this 
 video  is  do  not  trim  anything.  Do  do 
 nothing  when  it  comes  to  trimming  at 
 this  point.  Um  you  are  not  going  to  want 
 to  trim  until  we're  absolutely  certain 
 that  there  is  no  cold  snaps  going  to 
 happen.  So,  mid-March,  you  definitely 
 want  to  trim.  And  what  you  want  to  do 
 when  you're  doing  it  with  palm  frrons, 
 it's  pretty  easy  to  see,  right?  You  can 
 trim  off  anything  that's  brown.  But  when 
 it  comes  to  plants,  plants  are  going  to 
 be  sometimes  brown  from  the  top  all  the 
 way  to  the  bottom.  So,  what  you  want  to 
 do  is  you  want  to  really  kind  of  see 
 like  scrape  it  off  with  your  nails.  See 
 where  the  green  stem  it  where  it  stops 
 being  green  and  goes  to  brown.  That's 
 your  line.  The  top  section  of  that 
 plant.  If  you  scrape  it  at  the  top 
 section,  it's  going  to  be  all  brown, 
 brown,  brown,  brown.  Once  it  gets  to 
 that  green  section,  that's  the  area 
 where  new  growth  happens.  So,  you  trim 
 right  there.  You  use  your  hand  clippers. 
 This  is  the  time  where  it's  really 
 important  to  use  hand  clippers  because 
 you  want  to  make  sure  you're  a  surgeon 
 right  now.  You're  you're  just  cutting 
 away  the  dead.  So,  you  want  to  take  this 
 time  and  make  sure  that  you  get  off  as 
 much  of  that  old  growth  as  possible 
 because  what'll  happen  right  where  the 
 new  growth  starts  to  grow  in,  it'll  kind 
 of  flush  back  out  and  it'll  be  beautiful 
 so  much  faster.  I've  seen  where  people 
 take  it  all  the  way  down  to  the  bottom 
 or  don't  take  enough  of  it  and  do  small 
 sections  and  then  you've  got  brown  and 
 then  you've  got,  you  know,  bushes 
 growing  out  on  the  sides  because  they 
 can't  grow  out  on  the  top.  they're  not 
 kind  of  there  yet.  So,  really  pay 
 attention  as  you're  as  you're  looking 
 through  that.  If  it's  a  big  area,  just 
 clip  clip  clip  till  you  start  seeing  the 
 green.  Once  you  see  the  green  on  the 
 inside  of  the  stem,  then  you  know  that 
 that's  all  live  material.  And  then 
 that's  now  that's  your  new  that's  your 
 new  base.  That's  where  you  kind  of 
 everything's  going  to  flush  back  from 
 that  point.  So,  I'm  trying  to  think  if 
 there's  anything  else  that  I  can  tell 
 you  guys  that  might  be  helpful  at  this 
 point.  Um, 
 you  know,  I  guess  the  next  thing  would 
 just  be  don't  just  don't  be  discouraged. 
 I  mean,  I  know  that  this  has  happened 
 and  I  know  that  we  have  put  money  and 
 time  and  effort  into  our  our  beautiful 
 gardens  and  creating  our  beautiful 
 spaces.  Um,  and  don't  let  these  little 
 freak  temperatures,  you  know,  stop  you 
 from  enjoying  where  you  live.  I  had  a 
 client  call  me  and  said,  "I  was  in  for 
 the  hurricanes.  I  understood  that  was 
 part  of  Florida,  but  I  did  not  know 
 we're  going  to  get  snow."  I  [laughter] 
 was  like,  "Yeah,  I  know.  Me  either."  And 
 I'm  literally  a  native  Floridaidian.  So, 
 you  know,  it's  it's  a  scary  thing.  It's 
 an  awful  thing.  And  um  just  bear  with 
 your  garden  at  this  point.  The  more  you 
 baby  it  right  now  over  these  next  few  uh 
 weeks,  it's  you're  just  going  to  see 
 such  a  nice  rebound.  Don't  be  in  a  hurry 
 to  trim  back  and  clear  everything  out  as 
 as  much  as  as  you  want  to.  It  this  is 
 the  time  for  patience.  So,  all  right, 
 gardeners.  I  think  that's  um  that's 
 going  to  do  it  for  me.  I  will  be  back  in 
 um  the  next  few  days  with  another  video 
 on  how  I'm  going  to  do  some  of  these 
 things  in  my  very  own  garden.  So  that 
 way  you  guys  get  to  see  it  in  real  life 
 and  hopefully  that  really  helps  you 
 understand  exactly  the  processes  that  I 
 take  to  kind  of  bring  my  garden  back  to 
 life  and  and  helps  us  helps  us  do  that 
 together.  So  I  wish  you  all  the  best  of 
 luck  and  um  take  care  and  I  will  see  you 
 in  the  very  next  video.

---



---

 Thank  you  so  much  for  joining  me  today. 
 We  are  in  a  fun  tropical  backyard  that 
 we  designed  and  installed  a  couple 
 months  ago.  So,  I  thought  I  would  bring 
 you  along  and  share  with  you  the  plants 
 and  the  trees  that  we  chose  for  the 
 area.  Now,  if  you  guys  are  thinking  of  a 
 no  grass  backyard  or  little  grass 
 backyard,  then  this  video  might  just 
 really  be  up  your  alley  because  we  took 
 out  all  the  grass  and  we  made  more  of  a 
 garden  setting  for  my  clients  back  here. 
 It's  more  of  a  tropical  garden  with  a 
 little  walkway  and  just  kind  of  enjoying 
 the  whole  space  without  any  maintenance 
 of  grass  back  here.  All right,  so  we  are 
 over  here  right  at  the  front.  So,  just 
 to  give  you  guys  kind  of  a  point  of 
 reference,  right  here,  of  course,  is  the 
 back  side  of  the  house.  This  long 
 walkway  of  grass  is  going  to  go  into 
 next  phase.  So,  my  clients  are  planning 
 on  that  being  a  lovely  walkway  just  like 
 their  backyard  spaces  surrounded  by 
 gardens  on  both  sides,  but  that's  to 
 come.  Right  now,  this  is  the  start  of 
 the  back  garden  here  and  we  have  a 
 collection  of  pink  hibiscus  as  the 
 backdrop  here.  Of  course,  we're  in 
 December,  so  they're  not  really  in 
 bloom,  but  they're  going  to  kind  of  give 
 you  a  nice  backdrop  of  color  on  this 
 large  8-ft  wall.  We  have  a  lovely 
 Buggania  multicolored  tree.  I  just  think 
 she  is  such  a  pretty  girl.  We've  been 
 through  some  storms,  so  she's  got  a 
 little  bit  of  browning  on  her,  but  she 
 is  coming  to  life  again.  Going  to  give 
 it  lots  and  lots  of  color  with  her  white 
 and  fuchsia  coloring  of  the  leaves.  And 
 this  is  actually  a  different  color  on 
 here.  It  is  the  watermelon  variety.  So, 
 there's  a  few  branches  of  those  on 
 there.  But  I  just  think  it's  such  a 
 pretty  pretty  little  variation  of  color 
 on  these  buganas.  Down  below  we  have  the 
 Helen  Johnson  buganveville.  So  these  are 
 the  dwarf  buganvillia.  And  it's  just  a 
 touch  of  those  kind  of  doing  a  little 
 half  circle  to  the  front  of  that  tree. 
 And  they  of  course  have  the  darker  tone 
 of  the  pink  almost  like  a  violet 
 coloring  in  the  flowers.  A  nice  little 
 touch  there.  And  then  down  below  we  have 
 some  blue  my  minds  here  as  our  base. 
 And  then  as  we  come  up  to  the  front,  we 
 started  out  with  the  stairst  step  effect 
 of  the  blew  my  minds  to  the  Carissa 
 boxwood  and  then  a  nice  collection  of 
 the  song  of  India.  It's  going  to  give  a 
 nice  brightness  between  this  dark 
 section  and  that  dark  section.  That  that 
 sandwiching  of  a  light  color  is  going  to 
 be  a  really  fun  look.  And  we  mimic  that 
 on  the  opposite  side.  So  you  can  really 
 see  it  starts  that  way  and  then  ends 
 that  way  in  this  bed.  To  the  backdrop, 
 we  have  three  single  trees  here.  And  I 
 don't  use  them  very  often  because 
 they're  very  hard  to  find.  But  these 
 were  existing  here.  They  were  one  solid 
 tree.  Like  they  allowed  them  to  become  a 
 wall  here.  And  so  when  we  came  in,  we 
 divide  them  and  they're  really  starting 
 to  flush  back  out  and  come  together. 
 They're  a  nice  slow  growing  tree,  a  nice 
 slow  growing  hardwood.  You  can  see  these 
 berries  here.  So  they  do  produce  some 
 droppings.  So  that  is  something  to 
 consider  if  you're  planning  on  using 
 them.  But  I  do  love  love love  this  leaf. 
 The  shininess  to  it.  It  reminds  me  a 
 little  bit  of  a  Kousia  tree,  but  grows 
 10  times  slower.  So,  if  that's  your 
 thing,  then  that  might  be  a  nice  tree  to 
 use  instead.  Now,  we  have  the  Kucia  as 
 the  backdrop.  You  can  tell  this  area 
 doesn't  get  a  lot  of  sun  because  Kousas 
 thin  out  a  little  bit  when  they  don't 
 have  a  lot  of  sun  exposure,  and  this  was 
 also  existing  here,  so  we  just  worked 
 with  it.  So,  if  you  do  have  that 
 particular  area,  you  might  have  to 
 fertilize  your  Kucia  more  in  the  shade 
 than  you  would  in  the  sun  because  they 
 do  just  need  that  extra  bit  of  nutrients 
 to  kind  of  help  keep  them  nice  and  thick 
 and  dense  and  producing.  At  the  corner, 
 we  have  a  triple  spindle  palm.  Kind  of 
 gives  you  just  a  nice  soft  airy  look  to 
 it.  It's  doing  really,  really  well.  It 
 was  existing  here,  so  we  were  able  to 
 keep  it.  Had  some  deficiencies,  but  I 
 can  see  all  the  new  growth  now  after  the 
 new  fertilizing  the  Palm  Saber  we  put  on 
 it.  is  just  flushing  out  so  lovely.  And 
 then  if  you  guys  are  looking  for  a 
 bedding  plant  and  you  don't  want  a 
 hedge,  try  these  burl  marks.  These 
 little  burly  marks  are  just  the  coolest 
 little  plant.  They're  a  filerendrian. 
 They  kind  of  cascade  over  and  cluster 
 together.  Now,  they're  definitely  not 
 one  you  want  to  try  on  single  like  a 
 like  one  over  there  and  then  plant 
 grouping.  They  do  need  kind  of  a 
 connection  of  their  brothers  with  them. 
 So,  if  you  do  want  kind  of  a  sea  of 
 green,  they  do  a  nice  job  of  that.  and 
 they  have  a  such  a  glossy  leaf  that  I 
 think  it's  just  such  a  lovely  bedding  to 
 any  kind  of  plant  grouping.  So,  if  you 
 kind  of  want  a  jungle  floor  plant  in  the 
 shade  with  a  lot  of  acidity  from  leaves, 
 this  is  a  fantastic  bedding  plant  to 
 work  with.  And  this  is  about  the  size 
 that  it  gets  and  stays.  So,  you  can 
 easily  keep  it  around  2  and  1/2  3t  tall, 
 no  problem.  Grows  super  slow.  Before  we 
 move  on,  I  guess  I  should  mention  this 
 cool  pathway  in  the  middle  of  the 
 gardens.  We  have  a  garden  on  one  side 
 and  a  garden  on  the  opposite  side.  And 
 we  decided  to  take  out  the  old  ugly  sod 
 that  would  not  just  live.  The  grass  just 
 does  not  like  being  underneath  of  these 
 trees.  Most  of  you  guys  are  probably 
 well  aware  of  that  and  fighting  that 
 same  battle.  If  that  is  you,  then  I 
 completely  get  it  because  grass  is  is 
 difficult.  It  was  always  muddy  and  mucky 
 here.  So,  when  we  were  creating  the 
 design,  I  was  walking  through  with  my 
 client  and  they  love  the  idea  of  just 
 having  a  soft  gravel,  more  organic 
 walkway  here.  We  have  a  gray  granite 
 stone.  It  is  the  smallest  variety,  the 
 half  inch.  So,  it's  kind  of  it  just 
 chunks  right  on  your  feet.  Really  easy 
 to  walk  on.  I  can  have  flip-flops  on  and 
 it's  just  so  easy  to  walk  on.  So,  this 
 is  the  perfect  perfect  little  thing  to 
 do.  Of  course,  you  guys  know  I  like  the 
 Tahesian  gray  granite,  too.  This  just 
 happened  to  be  the  gray  granite  that  was 
 in  stock.  So  either  one  of  them  works 
 super  super  well  and  it  kind  of  does  the 
 job  back  here.  We  didn't  want  anything 
 too  polished  because  this  is  a  soft 
 tropical  planting.  They  have  the 
 polished  look  all  by  the  pool  and  the 
 seating  section  and  all  that  that's 
 going  on  there  which  is  absolutely 
 lovely.  And  then  as  you  step  further 
 back  into  the  garden,  you  get  more  of 
 that  just  that  tropical  feel  that  more 
 like  grab  a  glass  of  wine  and  walk 
 through  the  garden  through  the  pathway. 
 And  that's  that's  what  they  wanted  and 
 that's  what  we  created  for  them.  And 
 it's  starting  to  come  together  really 
 lovely.  We'll  continue  to  watch  it 
 unfold  over  the  next  few  months.  Those 
 of  you  guys  who  have  not  subscribed, 
 please  subscribe.  We  post  every  single 
 weekend  and  we  would  love  to  see  you 
 every  Saturday.  Hit  that  notification 
 bell  and  you  will  know  that  we  have  a 
 video  coming  out  every  Saturday.  All 
 right,  so  now  we're  back  here  kind  of  at 
 the  beginning.  So  from  the  main  housing 
 area,  right  from  the  main  seating 
 section,  which  is  always  important  for 
 me  to  see,  is  to  have  good  balance  on 
 both  sides.  So  you  guys,  if  you  have  two 
 corner  areas  and  you're  able  to  balance 
 those  two  corner  sections  out  and  mimic 
 each  other,  that's  a  great  great  thing 
 to  do  because  when  you're  looking  at  it 
 from  one  central  location,  whether  it's 
 the  kitchen  window  or  the  back  patio 
 doors  or  the  pool  area,  whatever  that 
 might  be,  having  two  anchored  areas  is 
 perfect.  Now,  we  didn't  have  a  lot  of 
 sun  to  work  with.  So,  I  ended  up 
 choosing  a  clustering  of  antiloo  here 
 and  a  clustering  of  antiloo  back  in  that 
 rear  corner.  And  those  both  served  well 
 for  both  of  those  locations.  And  they're 
 really  drawing  the  eye  of  a  nice 
 contrasting  coloration  to  the  rest  of 
 the  plants  in  the  garden.  So,  we  have  a 
 nice  dark  green  and  yellow  and  these 
 Brazilian  red  cloaks.  With  the  greens, 
 we  needed  something  with  kind  of  a  year 
 round  color,  which  is  ideal.  Those 
 antiloo  will  do  a  nice  job  of  that.  So, 
 right  here  next  to  those  guys  are 
 Brazilian  red  cloaks.  This  little 
 grouping  is  not  yet  in  bloom.  I  see  buds 
 all  over  them,  but  they're  not  quite 
 there  yet.  These  guys  are  going  to  get 
 that  6  7  foot  height  and  range  and 
 really  give  you  a  nice  grouping  of  that 
 cone-  shaped  gorgeous  color.  I  just  love 
 their  flower  and  what  they  offer.  So, 
 it's  really  going  to  take  off  and  give 
 them  a  lot  of  that.  And  these  are  such 
 butterfly  attractants.  They're  going  to 
 be  stunning  when  they  mature  and  get  get 
 some  size  to  them.  I  can't  wait  for  that 
 to  happen.  Right  here  we  have  a  really 
 pretty  leaf  color.  You  can  kind  of  see 
 this  little  just  gorgeous  individual 
 leaf  that's  here  with  the  green.  This 
 msianda  is  absolutely  stunning.  They're 
 very,  very  nice.  Now,  there  this  is 
 their  coldest  location.  And  then  they 
 can't  get  you  want  to  plant  them  in 
 nothing  colder  than  zone  10A  because 
 they  can  get  a  little  bit  delicate  when 
 it  comes  to  the  cold.  But  they're  so 
 worth  it  cuz  their  blooming  cycle  is 
 stunning.  You  get  8  to  10  months  of 
 blooms  from  them  every  year.  They're 
 just  such  a  delicate  like  little  look. 
 Now  I  don't  like  to  use  a  lot  of  them.  I 
 just  use  like  a  little  touch  of  those 
 for  a  variation  in  color.  Then  just  down 
 below  we  have  the  dwarf  ratanera.  These 
 are  dwarf  jasmine  tree.  They  have  a 
 little  bit  of  a  fragrance  to  them.  It 
 smells  almost  like  a  little  citrus 
 citrusy.  It's  just  really  really  quite 
 pretty.  But  they're  going  to  connect 
 together  and  become  big  tree  bushes.  So 
 they're  going  to  kind  of  round  out. 
 You'll  have  a  little  bit  of  a  stem  to 
 them  at  the  bottom,  but  they  bloom  a 
 gorgeous  white  clustering  flower.  I'm 
 really  been  a  big  fan  of  them  because 
 they're  just  tough.  Um  I  don't  have 
 hardly  any  issues  with  them  and  I  just 
 love  the  way  they  look  in  the  landscape 
 and  their  leaf  is  very  a  lot  of  movement 
 in  the  garden.  So,  it's  very  soft,  very 
 just,  I  don't  know,  just  so  pleasant, 
 especially  when  you're  dealing  with 
 something  like  the  laopi  down  below 
 that's  more  structured,  that's  more,  you 
 know,  just  more  tapered  to  the  bottom. 
 And  then  you  get  these  guys  that  are 
 just  going  to  be  really  wavy  and  really 
 soft.  So,  it's  going  to  be  a  nice  touch 
 there.  Oh,  we  have  a  poor  magenta  fire 
 spike  that  needs  water  desperately.  We 
 need  to  see  what's  going  on  with  that. 
 So,  it's  good  thing  we're  visiting 
 today.  But  you  can  kind  of  see  what 
 they're  meant  to  be  doing,  which  is  the 
 two  guys  right  next  to  them,  which  is  is 
 a  beautiful  magenta  coloring  and  flower. 
 Hummingbirds,  butterflies  alike  love, 
 love,  love  this  plant.  So  you  guys,  you 
 can  plant  this  in  the  shade.  You  can 
 plant  this  in  the  sun.  It  is  going  to 
 bloom  more  in  the  sun  and  filtered 
 light.  Those  are  its  two  favorites. 
 These  are  great.  You  can  keep  them  this 
 size.  You  can  let  them  get  6  to  8  foot. 
 You  can  keep  them  4  foot.  They're  kind 
 of  keep  them  at  your  preference.  I  kind 
 of  wanted  three  individual  ones  as  the 
 backdrop  from  the  screen  room  from  the 
 main  seating  section.  I  wanted  these 
 three  to  kind  of  look  just  be  lit  up 
 with  blooms  as  a  backdrop.  And  then  when 
 they're  not  lit  up  with  blooms,  they're 
 just  such  a  pretty  dark  green  big  leafed 
 plant.  I  think  they're  just  a  stunner  in 
 the  garden.  So  I  think  they're  going  to 
 do  really  really  well  here.  All right, 
 so  right  here  we  have  some  aetasy 
 painters  in  a  nice  staggered  grouping 
 and  some  Congo  croins.  These  are  large 
 leaf  congo.  Look  how  dark  the  leaves  are 
 on  these  guys.  The  backsides  of  these 
 leaves  are  just  stunning.  That's  from 
 the  cold  snap.  A  little  bit  of  cold 
 weather,  they  go  dark  like  that.  And 
 then  during  the  summer,  you'll  have  more 
 kind  of  light  bright  coloration  to  them. 
 So,  I  love  them  in  both  seasons.  We  had 
 a  limb  fall  on  this  guy  during  a 
 rainstorm,  but  it  looks  like  he's 
 popping  back.  They're  so  just  they're 
 just  so  tough.  So,  don't  be  afraid. 
 That's  going  to  happen  in  gardens  where 
 you  have  oak  trees  or  big  palm  trees. 
 leaves  and  limbs  are  going  to  fall  and 
 that's  just  a  part  of  keeping  up  with 
 it.  The  best  that  you  can  go  out  and 
 pick  the  big  guys  off  so  that  way  it 
 doesn't  kind  of  completely  squash  your 
 plants,  but  they'll  pop  right  back  like 
 you  see  this  guy  is  doing  just  that.  All 
 right,  so  as  we  move  on  to  this  corner, 
 you  can  see  these  Brazilian  red  cloaks 
 are  starting  to  really  take  off  in 
 bloom.  We've  got  new  blooms  and  new 
 color  coming  from  everywhere  on  those. 
 So,  in  answer  to  your  question  that  you 
 probably  have,  will  these  bloom  in  the 
 shade?  I  know  I  mention  this  all  the 
 time.  They  will  bloom  in  the  shade.  So, 
 they  can  handle  filtered  light,  they  can 
 handle  full  sun,  and  they  can  handle 
 good  shade.  They  do  prefer  filtered 
 light.  That's  their  ideal  plant.  If  you 
 put  them  in  full  sun,  make  sure  that  you 
 add  a  little  bit  of  a  water  or  soaker 
 hose  to  it.  So,  that  way  it  gets  a 
 little  bit  extra  irrigation.  So,  a 
 little  extra  bubbler  to  your  collection 
 of  your  Brazilian  red  cloaks  will  make 
 them  bloom  10  times  more.  They  really  do 
 get  that  good  energy  from  that  water 
 source.  So  don't  be  afraid  to  add  a 
 little  extra  water  to  this  particular 
 plant  for  some  happy  blooms.  So  as  we 
 make  our  way  back  up  to  the  walkway,  let 
 me  mention  this  Laia.  Now  I  know  Lauria 
 does  not  get  this  big  claim  to  fame 
 because  it  is  just  a  little  tiny  grass. 
 You  know,  you  want  to  edge  any  kind  of 
 walkway  with  a  really  nice  edge  line. 
 Right  here  we  have  the  aluminum  alloy 
 edging.  You  can  use  edging.  You  can  use 
 whatever  edging  that  you  you  tend  to 
 work  with.  But  you  definitely  want  to 
 edge  your  walkway  so  it  stays  dense  and 
 compact.  That's  the  way  to  keep  it  like 
 a  true  clean  walkway.  However,  I  don't 
 love  seeing  the  edges  here.  So,  when  you 
 put  laria  along  this  edge,  as  it  grows 
 in,  it's  going  to  blur  this.  It's  going 
 to  grow  and  just  cover  just  the  ends, 
 but  not  so  much  so  where  you're  having 
 to  dodge  the  plants  because,  you  know, 
 there's  leaves  everywhere.  It's  just 
 going  to  give  you  a  soft  border.  And 
 when  I  have  them,  I  try  to  stagger  them 
 where  there's  room  so  that  way  they're 
 it's  a  nice  dense,  thick  line  instead  of 
 one  row  if  you  can  stagger  them  in  areas 
 that'll  give  you  that  really  dense  kind 
 of  grassy  feel.  And  I  I  just  think 
 that's  going  to  come  together  so  well. 
 And  it  also  gives  you  more  of  that 
 jungle  carpet  kind  of  look  to  it  when 
 they  kind  of  come  over  just  like  that. 
 you  know,  with  the  pathway  alone,  I 
 mean,  obviously  I'm  a  fan  of  curving 
 pathways  from  one  entry  point  to 
 another,  but  if  you  have  something 
 similar  to  what  Barbara  has  here, 
 Barbara  and  Pete  had  this  big  equipment 
 area  to  the  back,  and  their  goal  was 
 like,  how  do  we  camouflage  that?  And  I'm 
 like,  well,  but  you  need  to  access  that, 
 right?  So,  you  know,  instead  of 
 camouflaging  it,  you  could  put  some 
 interesting  layers  to  the  front  on 
 either  side  that  draw  your  eye  away,  but 
 definitely  take  that  pathway  and  make  it 
 user  friendly  because  there's  nothing 
 worse  than  a  pathway  to  nowhere.  So, 
 having  a  pathway  that  goes  and  veers  off 
 to  this  way  and  then  veers  off  this  way 
 almost  looks  like  a  multiple 
 destination.  Even  though  it's  just  going 
 to  the  equipment  area,  it's  still  cool 
 that  it  looks  like  it  goes  into  that 
 section.  So,  I  like  that  we  were  able  to 
 use  that.  All  right.  So,  as  we  move  on 
 to  this  section  over  here,  you  guys, 
 this  is  a  collection  of  the  antiloo  I 
 was  talking  about.  So,  we  have  it 
 balanced  on  both  sides.  Then,  we've  got 
 the  sppy  painters  that  will  get  into 
 that  4ft  height  there.  And  then  a  little 
 bit  of  foxtail  ferns.  And  then  we've  got 
 a  mixture  of  song  of  India  and  ice  tone 
 croins.  And  that's  really  to  balance  out 
 the  opposite  side  of  the  walkway.  So,  it 
 looks  like  we  have  an  entry  feature  to 
 both  sections  or  to  both  sides  of  the 
 entryway  of  the  walkway.  This  was  from 
 the  original  landscape  that  we  got  to 
 work  with.  So,  it  was  great  that  we  got 
 to  inherit  the  Montgomery  palms.  I  think 
 they're  lovely.  We  have  two,  three,  we 
 have  two  and  a  half.  So,  they  lost  one 
 trunk  and  they're  going  to  take  out  the 
 whole  tree.  I'm  so  glad  that  they  opted 
 not  to  because  I  think  even  though  that 
 it's  a  single,  it  doesn't  always  have  to 
 be  exactly  matchy  matchy.  I  would  rather 
 keep  the  tree  there.  That  way,  we  have 
 some  size  and  maturity  that  match  each 
 other.  So,  I  don't  know.  You  guys  tell 
 me  if  you  think  you  would  have  taken  it 
 out  or  if  you  would  have  kept  it,  but  I 
 lean  towards  kind  of  keeping  it  and 
 working  with  what's  here  down  below.  I 
 wanted  something  in  this  area.  We  don't 
 get  quite  as  much  sun  in  this  spot  as  we 
 got  over  there  where  the  bugan  villas 
 are.  So  these  ratimera,  which  are  the 
 dwarf  jasmine  bushes  that  you  saw  over 
 there,  these  are  the  tree  variety  of 
 those.  So  these  are  going  to  be  nice 
 little  trees  that  are  going  to  about 
 double  in  size  and  that's  it.  But  I  love 
 this  rounded  head.  If  you  guys  like  that 
 kind  of  look  and  you  don't  want  to  fuss 
 with  the  maintenance  of  buganvillia 
 because  you  know  buganville  gets  a 
 little  crazy  and  wild  on  you  then 
 ratimacher  tree  might  just  be  up  your 
 alley.  They  bloom  a  clustering  of  white 
 blooms  with  a  yellow  center.  So  so 
 pretty  with  a  nice  little  fragrance. 
 It's  not  gardinia  style  fragrance.  It's 
 more  softer,  more  subtle.  Like  I  said, 
 it  was  more  citrusy,  but  a  really  really 
 pretty  plant.  Really  pretty  little  tree. 
 And  it's  what  we  call  in  the  landscape 
 world  patio  trees  cuz  you  can  keep  them 
 small.  the  trunks  will  get  bigger  kind 
 of  like  a  like  an  olive  tree  does,  but 
 you  can  kind  of  keep  it  nice  and  rounded 
 and  small  forever.  But  in  this 
 particular  case,  I  would  love  to  see  it 
 the  size  of  the  walls.  That  would  be 
 just  kind  of  a  nice  intermediate  look  to 
 Montgomery  Palms.  And  then  we  ended  with 
 one  right  there  outside  her  bedroom 
 window.  And  I  think  that's  going  to  give 
 her  a  nice  blast  of  color  in  this 
 particular  area.  Instead  of  having  an 
 outline  of  grass  here,  we  have  some 
 Carissa  boxwood  that  are  just  going  to 
 kind  of  outline  this  area  right  along 
 this  edge  and  kind  of  grow  right  to  the 
 edge  of  the  pavers,  giving  a  great 
 defined  line  of  a  dark  green  and  then 
 allowing  this  be  a  little  wild  and  crazy 
 with  the  foxtail  ferns  kind  of  getting 
 letting  them  be  their  thing.  These  were 
 existing  to  the  landscaping  and  I  think 
 they  looked  nice  amongst  the  trees.  So, 
 we  just  cleaned  them  up  and  kept  them. 
 Looks  like  they  could  use  another 
 cleaning,  but  I  think  that  they're 
 really  a  cool  kind  of  different  take  on 
 leaf  texture  here.  When  these  guys  grow 
 in  these  Carissa  boxwood,  you're  going 
 to  have  a  shiny,  glossy,  compact,  very 
 controlled  kind  of  boxwood  like  leaf.  I 
 think  the  combination  of  this  is  going 
 to  be  a  perfect  defined  outline  to 
 something  a  little  bit  wild  and  crazy. 
 And  it's  just  something  so  simple. 
 There's  not  a  lot  of  room  here.  So  you 
 can  see  we  don't  have  many  layers  going 
 on  in  this  particular  bed,  but 
 considering  we  have  all  that  going  on 
 back  there,  I  love  to  keep  the  sides 
 simple.  If  you  guys  have  oak  trees,  you 
 may  have  the  same  problem  here.  We've 
 got  oak  trees  with  a  tree  well  here  and 
 tons  and  tons  of  roots.  So  when  you  have 
 that,  you  need  to  bring  in  plant 
 material  that  has  a  small  root  system  or 
 something  that  when  you're  planting  it, 
 you  can  cut  half  of  that  root  ball  off 
 and  plant  that  plant.  And  that's  exactly 
 what  we  did  here.  So  these  right  here, 
 this  is  silver  odora  burmilad.  And  when 
 you  plant  these  guys,  this  was  a 
 15gallon  plant,  which  means  that  the 
 plant  root  ball  is  about  this  big  and 
 about  this  big,  which  is  pretty 
 significant.  But  this  is  a  big  canopy, 
 so  that's  what  you  want  to  start  with. 
 But  because  of  all  the  roots  in  here,  we 
 cut  that  down  to  where  it's  just  a  few 
 inches  of  the  root  ball  because  it 
 doesn't  rely  on  that.  So,  we  were  able 
 to  really  plant  a  big  plant  in  here  with 
 very  little  root  ball.  So,  that's  when 
 you're  dealing  with  plants,  agave  are 
 perfect  for  that.  You  can  cut  that  root 
 ball  almost  entirely  off.  Bmilads  are 
 that  way.  You  can  cut  that  root  ball 
 almost  entirely  off.  It's  ideal  to  work 
 with  because  they're  not  really  having 
 to  fight  that  root  system. 
 And  then  we  have  a  grouping  right  here 
 is  a  Johannis  burmilad.  I  commonly  get 
 the  question  which  bmilad  can  handle  the 
 sun.  These  can  handle  the  sun  like  a 
 champ.  They're  ideal  for  this  type  of 
 situation.  They  can  handle  the 
 bounceback  heat  from  the  pavers.  But 
 these  Johannes  permilad  have  that 
 beautiful  flamboyant  green  and  yellow 
 with  tips  of  pink  on  them.  I  just  think 
 they're  gorgeous,  especially  when 
 they're  paired  with  plants  like  these 
 guys,  which  are  the  Margaret  Burmilads 
 or  some  people  know  them  as  margaritas. 
 They're  a  dark  dark  tone  and  they  can 
 also  they  handle  they're  both  in  the  Neo 
 family,  but  they're  very  very  tough 
 sun-loving  plants  and  they're  not  that 
 orange  flame  variety,  which  is  what  what 
 I  like.  They  kind  of  hold  that  pink 
 coloring  real  well.  Then  we  have  some 
 beonia  odoratas  underneath  the  oak  tree. 
 And  then  those  icone  croins  that  you 
 guys  may  have  seen  in  the  front  yard. 
 And  I  just  love  how  compact  these  guys 
 are.  Now  these  are  the  seven  gallon  size 
 here.  So  you  can  see  they're  more 
 rounded,  more  dense.  Those  are  the  three 
 gallon  size  down  below.  You  can  tell 
 they're  much  younger  plant,  but  they 
 will  eventually  get  into  a  chunkier 
 version.  But  not  much  bigger  than  what 
 you  see  here.  They  will  chunk  out  a 
 little  bit  more,  but  they're  easy  to 
 keep  at  a  small  height.  And  that's  what 
 we  wanted  here.  We  kind  of  wanted  a 
 little  bit  of  a  wall,  but  nothing  that 
 was  going  to  be  up  here.  She  always 
 wanted  to  be  able  to  see  what  was  going 
 on  behind  this  area.  You  guys  will  have 
 to  tell  me,  would  you  miss  the  grass? 
 Would  would  something  like  this  work  for 
 your  garden?  Do  you  like  the  idea  of 
 grabbing  a,  you  know,  a  cup  of  coffee 
 and  walking  through  the  backyard  space 
 like  you're  walking  through  a  botanical 
 garden?  Is  this  kind  of  your  thing?  Or 
 or,  you  know,  do  you  like  the  clean  look 
 of  grass?  And  that's  okay  either  way. 
 But  I'm  hoping  that  this  video  maybe 
 gave  you  some  inspiration  for  taking  a 
 small  yard  from  a  yard  yard  to  more  of  a 
 little  garden  setting.  This  is  a  very 
 young  landscaping,  but  I  would  say  over 
 the  next  year  it's  going  to  become  that 
 tropical  garden  of  Barbara's  dreams, 
 which  I  cannot  wait  to  see  that  happen. 
 Hopefully,  she'll  have  us  back  and  we'll 
 get  chance  to  see  everything  fully 
 matured  and  all  lush  and  filled  in. 
 Thank  you  guys  so  much  for  joining  us  on 
 today's  video.  If  you  enjoyed  today's 
 video,  you  might  check  out  Barbara  and 
 Pete's  video  from  last  week,  which  was 
 their  front  yard  garden  tour,  which  we 
 will  put  right  here.  So  that  way  you 
 guys  can  click  on  that  and  check  out 
 that  and  enjoy  it.  Thank  you  so  much.  We 
 will  see  you  next  Saturday  for  our  very 
 next  video.  You  guys  take  care.

---

 All  right,  welcome  back  true  gardener. 
 So  today  I  want  to  share  with  you  five 
 of  some  of  my  favorite  tropical  tried 
 andrue  [music]  tough  Florida  plants  that 
 you  can  use  to  create  a  privacy  buffer. 
 Now  this  is  a  front  yard  privacy  buffer 
 and  I  think  it  is  just  taken  off  and 
 created  the  buffer  where  you  pretty 
 [music]  much  don't  see  any  neighbors  or 
 nosy  neighbors.  No  neighbors  at  all. 
 It's  just  a  nice  sideyard  wall  that 
 isn't  a  wall.  And  that's  kind  of  what  I 
 want  to  share  with  [music]  you  guys 
 today.  The  combination  of  this  grouping 
 is  going  to  create  a  lovely,  lovely 
 contrasting  type  of  landscaping  where 
 you  just  don't  have  a  row  of  this  or  a 
 [music]  row  of  that.  So,  I'm  going  to 
 flip  this  camera  around  and  show  you 
 those  five  now.  All  right.  So,  very 
 first  on  my  list  here  is  the  Louisiana 
 red  copper  leaves.  I  absolutely  love 
 what  they're  doing  on  this  side  here. 
 They're  really  doing  a  nice  job  of 
 camouflaging  that  big  pole  [music] 
 there.  There  were  exactly  four  7gallon 
 Louisiana  reds  that  have  [music]  created 
 that  kind  of  look  right  there.  Those  get 
 trimmed  twice  a  year.  Every  six  months 
 [music]  they  go  down  to  about  four  foot 
 tall  again  and  then  flush  back  out  to 
 that  8  to  10  foot  height  range.  So  very 
 low  maintenance  when  they're  put  in  the 
 proper  spot  cuz  you're  really  allowed  to 
 let  them  [music]  kind  of  get  nice  and 
 big.  They  will  get  a  little  stemi  at  the 
 bottom.  So  if  that's  this  is  the  way 
 you're  planning  on  using  them,  kind  of 
 bring  in  an  underskirt  planting.  It 
 could  be  [music]  goldest  croins  like  we 
 have  here.  It  could  be  sesy.  It  could  be 
 something  that's  kind  of  just  a  a  thick 
 low  growing  dense  planting  that  does  not 
 get  woody.  And  for  my  second  plant  would 
 be  just  next  to  it  here,  which  is  the 
 split  leaf  filidendran.  I  love  the  way 
 this  softens  the  edge  of  this  bed.  I 
 love  the  way  this  really  just  kind  of 
 creates  kind  of  a  a  finale,  a  little 
 point  of  interest  right  at  the  bottom 
 and  how  it  drops  down  in  tears  down  to 
 this.  A  fantastic  lowmaintenance,  tough, 
 tried  and  true.  can  handle  salt,  can 
 handle  uh  clay  conditions,  can  handle 
 well-  draining  soil,  can  handle  just  so 
 many  variety.  It's  such  a  versatile 
 plant.  Can  handle  filtered  light,  full 
 sun.  It's  just  a  a  tough  tough  overall 
 plant  and  offers  quick  quick  privacy. 
 [music]  That's  one  of  the  things  I  love 
 about  that  both  of  these  plants,  all  of 
 the  plants  that  we're  going  to  talk 
 about  today  offer  [music]  nice  quick 
 privacy.  Something  you  can  put  in  at  a 
 small  size  with  a  small  budget  [music] 
 and  create  big  pop.  It's  got  kind  of 
 that  wild  and  soft  look  that  you're 
 you're  wanting  to  see  in  your  garden  and 
 not  have  to  [music]  maintain  it  and  trim 
 it  and  hedge  it.  This  is  going  to  be  a 
 perfect  fit  fit  for  this.  However,  if 
 you  want  something  more  formal  fitting, 
 these  are  not  your  guys.  These  guys  are 
 going  to  naturally  branch  out  and  widen 
 out  over  time  and  over  the  years,  this 
 is  going  to  be  a  perfect  grouping  for 
 about  5  to  10  years.  And  [music]  then  at 
 that  point,  they  start  getting  too  big 
 where  you're  almost  going  to  just  start 
 over.  But  considering  they're  easy  to 
 source,  they're  easy  to  plant,  they're 
 easy  to  get  established,  I  think  that 
 having  to  do  that  transition  about  every 
 5  to  10  years  is  totally  worth  it 
 because  you  get  this  such  a  long-term 
 soft,  lowmaintenance  plant  grouping.  The 
 original  plant  grouping  2  years  ago  in 
 this  area  were  four  of  these  guys.  So, 
 we  had  four  7gallon.  You  can  really  see 
 they've  done  a  nice  job  of  softening  the 
 whole  end  of  this  buffer  as  they  wrap 
 around  to  the  front,  giving  this  more  of 
 a  naturalized  type  of  look.  So,  [music] 
 you  can  see  the  contrast  between  these 
 two  I  just  think  are  just  so  stunning. 
 And  that  leads  us  into  our  third  tree  of 
 choice  would  be  the  pygmyate  palms.  I 
 [music]  use  pygmyate  palms  throughout 
 this  bed.  I've  got  them  flanking  our 
 centerpiece  tree  here.  They  grow  to  10 
 to  12  foot  tall.  [music]  So,  they're 
 never  going  to  be  into  those  power  lines 
 there.  They're  just  going  to  be  just  a 
 tad  bit  above  and  really  kind  of  give 
 you  almost  [music]  like  a  a  very  soft 
 palmy  bushy  type  of  feel.  I  like  to  keep 
 them  natural.  A  lot  of  you  guys  see  them 
 in  my  designs  and  they  have  um  they're 
 they're  more  fuller  and  thicker.  I  tend 
 to  really  only  love  to  trim  my  pigment 
 palms  about  twice  a  year,  keeping  them 
 [music]  that  natural  fullness  and  I 
 think  that  just  makes  for  a  nice  privacy 
 buffer.  [music]  You  can  get  those  in  at 
 25  gallon  size.  my  favorite  size  to  get 
 them  in  cuz  by  that  point  [music] 
 they're  half  grown.  They're  5  foot  tall. 
 I  love  the  triples.  You  can  get  them  in 
 multi-  stems,  singles,  [music]  but  to  me 
 my  favorite  is  triples  because  you  get 
 this  broadening  effect,  this  just  nice 
 [music]  big  wide  cluster  of  fronds.  And 
 and  what's  great  about  that  is  I'm  don't 
 have  to  ever  worry  about  my  trees 
 getting  into  that  canopy  right  there. 
 [music]  They're  going  to  stay  just  above 
 that  here.  So,  perfect  area  usually 
 right  in  your  ey  line  for  buffering. 
 Now,  they  are  great  for  filtered 
 privacy.  you  know,  you're  going  to  see 
 through  them  a  tad  bit,  but  I  really  do 
 think  they  do  a  nice  job  of  kind  of 
 giving  you  a  concealment,  a  nice  big 
 grouping  here.  Now,  if  um  if  you  want  a 
 solid  wall,  you're  going  to  have  to  do 
 an  underplanting  kind  of  like  you  see 
 here  in  this  grouping  where  the  gold 
 dust  croins  have  become  the  skirt  and 
 then  you  have  the  palm  tree  above  it.  As 
 long  as  you're  okay  with  that,  then  I 
 think  those  two  tiers  work  so  nicely. 
 Just  look  at  the  way  those  three  kind  of 
 come  together  where  you've  got  the 
 Louisiana  red  copper  release  at  the 
 back.  The  pigment  8  palm  as  that  kind  of 
 center  thickness  and  then  down  below 
 just  down  below  we  have  maybe  three  or 
 four  [music]  of  the  gold  dust  croins 
 kind  of  giving  you  a  final  ground  cover 
 or  a  lower  tier  effect  [music]  covering 
 the  trunks  of  that  tree.  My  fourth 
 favorite  plant  is  surprise  surprise 
 kucia.  We  have  six  [music]  originally 
 six  15gallon  kousia  were  planted  that 
 was  to  create  a  wall  behind  this  tree. 
 [music]  Now,  I  didn't  want  anything  to 
 interrupt  this  tree  while  it  was  young. 
 So,  what  we  did  is  we  created  something 
 that  was  more  of  a  flat  point.  So,  it's 
 Kucia  do  a  fantastic  job  of  that.  A 
 couple  foot  off  of  the  property  line  and 
 let  them  get  kind  of  nice  and  [music] 
 dense  as  a  wall  and  then  you  can  do 
 something  a  little  wild  pulled  forward 
 like  the  pygmy  8  pumps  I  have  on  either 
 side.  And  then  to  the  back,  we  have  a 
 little  clustering  again  of  the  Louisiana 
 red  copper  leaves.  Those  are  some  of  my 
 favorites  to  work  with  in  a  garden  and  I 
 think  pulled  together  in  this  type  of 
 combination.  They  work  so  so  well 
 together.  And  lastly,  but  certainly  not 
 least,  the  Brazilian  red  cloaks.  I 
 absolutely  love  these  plants.  They  work 
 so  well  in  so  many  different 
 combinations,  but  I  truly  do  love  them 
 in  this  particular  one.  Circling  around 
 this  Christmas  palm,  kind  of  covering  up 
 those  bases.  I  know  a  lot  of  people 
 don't  like  the  trunks  of  trees.  As  those 
 trees  get  a  nice  size  to  them  because  it 
 kind  of  kind  of  lose  the  impact.  But  if 
 you  have  something  thick  and  dense 
 wrapping  around  those  bases,  it  kind  of 
 really  brings  a  nice  underplanting  to 
 [music]  those  canopies,  drawing  your  eye 
 to  both  sections,  making  the  tree  feel 
 less  large,  making  kind  of  taking  up 
 some  of  that  space.  They  make  a  perfect 
 intermediate  tier  and  really  offer  tons 
 and  [music]  tons  and  tons  of  color.  I 
 mean,  we  are  in  February  right  now  and 
 this  is  the  color  this  plant's  giving 
 off.  So  almost  all  year  long  you're 
 getting  gorgeous,  gorgeous  color.  This 
 is  a  filtered  light  situation,  so  they 
 get  some  morning  sun,  midday  sun.  Um, 
 and  then  this  is  kind  of  what  they're 
 what  they're  offering.  There  was 
 originally  five  of  these  guys  planted  at 
 7gallon  size.  Now,  you  can  obviously 
 pair  this  back.  If  you  really  want  to 
 keep  [music]  this  inside  the  window 
 line,  you  could  do  three.  You  can  put 
 one  on  either  side  of  the  trunks  there 
 and  one  to  the  middle  and  let  those 
 three  connect.  But  we  really  wanted  a 
 big  grouping  because  this  is  a  garage 
 wall  and  there  was  no  reason  to  leave  an 
 opening  there.  So,  um  I  really  do  think 
 they  did  a  nice  job  of  kind  of  softening 
 what  is  naturally  a  very  white  house 
 with  [music] two  simple  windows.  All 
 right,  you  guys.  So,  those  are  five  of 
 some  of  my  favorites  that  I  love  to 
 incorporate  into  our  Florida  landscapes 
 because  of  their  toughness  and  their 
 durability.  If  this  is  a  look  that  you 
 like,  then  you  are  in  luck  because  we 
 did  a  full  garden  tour  of  this 
 particular  front  yard.  kind  of  how  we 
 created  it,  kind  of  really  some  key 
 points  of  how  to  recreate  it.  So,  if 
 this  is  your  thing,  check  out  that 
 video.  It  will  be  in  next  week's  video 
 lineup.  Thank  you  so  much.  really 
 enjoyed  today's  video  and  I  will  see  you 
 guys  next

---

 Well,  hello  true  [music]  gardeners. 
 Welcome  back.  So,  today's  video  is  all 
 about  going  vertical.  [music]  I  wanted 
 to  share  with  you  a  way  to  take  your 
 garden  from  pretty  cool,  pretty 
 tropical,  pretty  awesome  to  going 
 straight  up  with  very  little  square 
 footage,  [music]  but  making  it  from  good 
 to  great.  Sometimes  we're  finished  with 
 the  landscaping  and  the  layers  are  in, 
 the  tropics  are  in,  and  everybody's 
 like,  "Oh  my  god,  I  absolutely  love  the 
 way  this  is  turning  out.  I  love  the  way 
 this  is  looking."  But  [music]  as  those 
 things  are  growing  in  and  establishing, 
 I  get  the  question  like  how  to  make  it 
 your  own,  how  to  make  those  standout 
 features.  Now,  [music]  you  guys  have 
 seen  where  I  put  pots  and  interesting 
 accents  and  statues  into  the  garden  and 
 obviously  that's  a  great  way  to  do  it, 
 but  I  want  to  add  one  more  thing  to  that 
 list  and  it's  a  wowza  kind  of  thing.  I 
 absolutely  love  the  way  it  looks  when 
 burmilads  are  mounted  to  trees.  I  think 
 that  that's  just  a  [music]  fantastic 
 look.  If  you  guys  saw  the  video  last 
 week  at  McKe  Gardens,  you  saw  several 
 trees  that  they  had  where  the  burmilads 
 climbed  all  the  way  up  and  you  got  all 
 this  variation  of  color  and  it  just 
 looked  like  column  after  column  after 
 column  of  beautiful,  beautiful  plants,  a 
 beautiful  color  and  beautiful  tropical 
 accents  [music] 
 working  its  way  all  the  way  through  the 
 gardens.  So,  in  today's  video,  I  want  to 
 share  with  you  exactly  how  to  do  that. 
 So,  we're  going  to  do  that  in  real  time. 
 You,  me,  and  Bryce.  Woo! 
 >> [laughter] 
 >> and  we  are  going  to  walk  through  this 
 step  by  [music]  step.  So,  I've  got  a 
 couple  different  scenarios  because  I 
 know  you  guys  Sorry,  Olive  wants  a 
 little  a  little  love.  You  guys  share  a 
 little  love  with  Olive.  Isn't  she  gotten 
 so  big,  y'all?  So  cute.  So,  we've  got  a 
 couple  different  ways  that  we're  going 
 to  do  this  because  I  don't  know  your 
 situation.  If  you  got  some  vermilads  and 
 pots  that  you've  got  to  get  out  of  pots 
 like  I  have  right  over  here,  I've  got 
 some  vermilads  that  oh  my  gosh,  they  are 
 climbing  out  of  the  pot.  So,  I'm  going 
 to  release  them  into  the  jungle  and 
 allow  them  to  do  their  thing  right  up  a 
 tree.  Or  if  you  have  pots  just  like  we 
 have  here,  we've  just  purchased  them 
 from  a  nursery  and  they're  still  in  a 
 soil.  And  the  second  thing  that  we're 
 going to  address  in  this  particular 
 situation  that  we're  going  to  do  today 
 is  going  to  be  on  a  tree  that  we  [music] 
 lost,  a  tree  that  we  had  to  cut  the 
 canopy  off  and  I  had  some  beautiful 
 orchids  on  that  tree.  So,  I  want  to  add 
 these  [music]  to  that  particular  tree. 
 And  then  towards  the  end  of  the  video, 
 we're  going  to  do  the  same  thing  on  a 
 tree  that  is  alive.  So  that  way,  no 
 matter  the  situation  that  you  guys  have, 
 if  you  got  trees  in  your  yard,  dead  or 
 alive,  you're  going  to  know  how  to 
 create  this  gorgeous,  [music] 
 gorgeous  accent  feature  in  your  own 
 garden.  But  you  guys,  let's  just  jump 
 right  in.  I  cannot  wait  to  get  this 
 started.  So  you  guys,  we  have  all  of  our 
 equipment  here.  I'm  going  to  kind  of 
 show  you  each  one.  [music]  And  this  is 
 simple  stuff.  This  is  stuff  that  you  can 
 pick  up  pretty  relatively  easy.  We've 
 got  three  different  sizes  of  zip  ties. 
 So  depending  on  what  you're  looking  for 
 for  the  space,  if  you're  going  to  use 
 nails,  you  want  the  small  zip  ties.  If 
 you're  going  to  wrap  around  the  whole 
 tree,  you're  going  to  want  these  large 
 zip  ties.  If  you're  going  to  need  a 
 little  bit  in  between,  you've  got  these 
 zip  ties.  So  these  guys  are  a  great  way 
 to  go.  You  can  use  wire.  It's  not  my 
 preferred  method  because  it  doesn't 
 stretch  really  well.  And  I  never  never 
 use  fish  and  line  because  that  is  it's 
 kind  of  tough.  It  doesn't  disintegrate. 
 So  really,  you  got  to  go  in  and  make 
 sure  that  you  remember  to  cut  every 
 single  piece.  What  I  really  enjoy  using 
 are  these  staples  here.  uh  especially  if 
 you're  working  with  a  tree  that  is  not 
 alive.  And  if  there  is  a  tree  that  you 
 absolutely  have  to  use  and  it  is  alive, 
 I'm  going  to  show  you  a  secondary 
 option.  And  then  there's  another  option 
 here  [music]  and  you  could  just  use  the 
 nails.  So  you're  going to  see  how  we're 
 going  to  kind  of  do  this.  We're  just 
 going  to  nail  this  section  into  the  tree 
 and  then  use  the  zip  tie  to  attach  the 
 actual  [music]  vermilad.  We're  going  to 
 start  with  these  potted  plants  because 
 gosh,  they  need  to  get  out  and  be  free. 
 And  so  I'm  going  to  show  you  exactly  how 
 I  go  about  cutting  them,  cleaning  them, 
 and  then  the  next  step  to  applying  them 
 to  [music]  a  tree.  All right,  you  guys. 
 So,  as  you  can  see,  these  pots  have  seen 
 better  days.  So,  there's  no  better  time 
 than  um  right  now  to  get  these  guys  out 
 of  the  pot.  So,  what  we're  looking  for 
 when  you're  when  you  have  burmiladas, 
 especially  even  whether  in  a  pot  or  on 
 the  ground,  you're  looking  for  this  stem 
 right  here.  So,  you  want  to  kind  of  take 
 it 
 and  clear  off  as  much  of  these  old  pups 
 as  possible 
 and  then  take  out  this.  Now,  I  know  this 
 seems  heartless,  but  really  they  don't 
 mind.  These  are  roots  that  can  really  be 
 pulled  away  and  you're  not  hurting  the 
 plant.  They're  really  getting  their 
 nutrients  from  [music]  these  cones  right 
 here.  This  is  where  they  hold  water. 
 This  is  where  they  receive  their 
 nutrients. 
 >> [music] 
 >> And  this  little  root  system  is  how  they 
 support  themselves.  So  all  it  really 
 does  is  attach  themselves  to  [music] 
 a  a  location,  whether  it's  a  pot  or  a 
 tree.  So  it's  more  of  a  supporting 
 factor.  You  probably  know  this  already, 
 but  each  vermilad  will  produce  a  pup. 
 And  so  that's  what  you're  [music]  seeing 
 here.  There's  going  to  be  a  mother  plant 
 and  then  off  of  that  mother  plant,  it 
 produces  a  stem  [music]  and  then  another 
 vermilad.  So  more  than  likely,  this 
 section  right  here  was  the  mother  plant 
 that  died  off.  And  then  these  are  the 
 pups  from  that  mother  [music]  plant. 
 This  is  probably  a  pup  from  this  plant 
 here.  So  you're  going  to  see  that  as  you 
 put  it  onto  the  tree,  it's  going  to 
 multiply  and  [music]  multiply  and 
 multiply  just  like  that.  And  they  really 
 do  offer  a  lot  of  pups.  So  you're  really 
 getting  the  benefit  of  a  lot  of  plants 
 with  just  one  plant.  I'm  going  to  just 
 kind  of  clear  this  off.  Now,  you  want  to 
 do  this  at  the  time  of  the  transplant 
 because  you  can  do  it  when  the  tree  when 
 it's  up  in  the  tree,  but  I'm  telling 
 you,  this  is  a  really  good  time  while 
 you  can  get  in  here  and  clean  all  these 
 old  leaves  off  and  no  one's  the  wiser.  I 
 like  kitchen  shears  for  things  like  this 
 because  you  can  [music]  sharpen  them. 
 I'll  use  my  Felcos  for  things  like  the 
 stems  and  and  cleaning  things  off,  but 
 to  me,  this  is  pretty  easy  to  get  into. 
 My  skin  is  super  sensitive  to  these 
 little  leaves.  These  little  leaves,  even 
 though  they  don't  have  teeth  [music]  on 
 the  end,  like  a  lot  of  burmiladas,  I'm 
 still  just  right  the  touch  of  this  or 
 the  rubbing  of  this,  [music]  it  seems  to 
 irritate  my  skin.  Some  people  have  no 
 problems  with  it,  but  I  am  one  of  those 
 people  who  [music]  just  dread  it.  So, 
 I'm  not  doing  it  today  because  we're 
 filming,  but  a  lot  of  times  when  I'm 
 dealing  with  vermilast,  if  you  ever  saw 
 me  [music]  on  some  of  the  shorts,  I 
 literally  have  socks.  I  use  tube  socks. 
 I  have  socks  up  to  here  and  then  I  put 
 my  gloves  on  and  it  does  the  job  of  just 
 protecting.  [music]  I  know  you  can  do 
 rose  gloves  with  it  because  they're 
 really  dense  and  really  thick,  but  I 
 really  like  these  gloves  that  have  a 
 little  bit  of  treading  like  this  and 
 then  are  really  tight  on  my  hands.  So 
 that  way  I  feel  like  I  can  feel 
 everything.  I  can  trim  and  I'm  not 
 actually  making  any  cuts  on  my  hands  or 
 anything  like  that.  Then  voila,  we  have 
 a  beautiful  little  section  right  here. 
 And  this  is  going  to  do  a  nice  job  of 
 being  a  nice  grouping  on  top  of  our 
 coconut  palm.  So,  we  have  just  enough 
 roots  here  where  it  can  actually  start 
 to  grab  too.  You  want  to  make  sure  that 
 you  put  this  right  on  the  tree.  And  then 
 we're  going  to  attach  right  here.  This 
 is  super  super  easy  to  do  when  it's  like 
 this.  I  am  going  to  show  you  the  next 
 step  when  you  don't  have  so  much  stem, 
 but  this  is  by  far  the  easiest.  So,  if 
 those  of  you  guys  who've  got  burmilads 
 on  the  ground  and  they're  [music]  just 
 growing  and  trailing  and  you're  like 
 kind  of  not  loving  them,  pop  them  up 
 because  at  that  point  they  have  all 
 these  stems  and  now  they  become 
 sculptures  in  [music]  the  garden  because 
 you  can  literally  put  them  on  anything. 
 All  right,  you  guys.  So,  look  at  how 
 tightly  these  are  wound  right  here.  You 
 can  actually  pull  these  roots  just 
 aside.  I  mean,  I  [music]  do  pull  gently. 
 I  don't  like  tug  and  tug  and  tug. 
 Sometimes  I'll  use  uh  water  to  kind  of 
 spray  [music]  the  soil  off  of  these,  but 
 these  weren't  too  bad,  so  I  didn't  have 
 to.  You'll  notice  I'm  going  to  do  that 
 with  the  other  ones.  All  right,  you 
 guys.  So,  if  you  see  this  happening, 
 this  was  the  original  mother  plant.  This 
 is  mama.  And  then  these  are  the  pups  off 
 of  her.  So,  [music]  it  is  absolutely 
 okay  to  cut  her  out.  It  is  okay  to  get 
 rid  of  anything  dead  because  she  has 
 already  given  life  and  given  birth  to 
 these  two  [music]  guys.  And  how  cool  are 
 they  going  to  look  in  the  garden?  So, 
 this  bmilad  is  called  Margaret.  This 
 particular  plant  does  not  attach  as 
 well.  So  if  you  have  this  and  you  love 
 this  coloring  and  to  me  this  coloring  is 
 fabulous.  What  I  like  about  this 
 particular  burmilad  is  it  can  handle  sun 
 and  it  can  handle  filter  light  and  shade 
 really  really  well  and  keep  that  dynamic 
 color.  So  this  is  a  beautiful  burmilad 
 and  so  longterm  you  can  have  it  for  10 
 years.  [music] 
 It's  not  going to  be  one  that  dies  out 
 on  you  constantly.  This  is  one  plant 
 that's  multiplied  quite  a  bit  and 
 connected  together  in  one  solid  root 
 base.  So  that's  exactly  what  they  look 
 like. 
 >> [music] 
 >> Don't  want  to  put  this  plant  directly  on 
 a  vertical  place  because  it's  going  to 
 take  a  very  long  time  for  it  to  attach. 
 However,  these  plants  right  here, 
 because  of  the  way  they  pup,  these  are 
 ideal.  These  are  fireball  neo  fireballs. 
 And  because  of  the  way  they  pup,  you  can 
 put  this  like  this  and  another  one  will 
 pup  [music]  this  way  and  pup  that  way 
 and  pup  this  way  and  every  which  way. 
 So,  these  are  fabulous  [music]  for  that. 
 But,  let  me  show  you  how  you're  going  to 
 do  that.  If  you  just  bought  a  bunch  of 
 bermilads,  say  you  went  to  the  bermilad 
 place  and  you  fell  in  love  and  you're 
 like,  "Will  these  climb?"  And  they  say 
 yes.  And  you're  like, "Okay,  so  how  do  I 
 do  it  because  they're  in  pots?"  We're 
 going  to  get  to  that  right  now.  So,  when 
 you  have  a  burmilad  like  this  and  you 
 want  to  incorporate  it  and  mount  it  to  a 
 tree,  you  want  to  take  it,  of  course, 
 out  of  the  pot.  Look  at  all  those 
 luscious  roots  right  there. 
 Well,  don't  get  so  attached  because  we 
 are  going  to  remove  some  of  them.  But  I 
 just  remove  the  soil  like  so  all  the  way 
 around. 
 Now  I'll  repurpose  this  soil  into  a  pot 
 and  use  it  for  other  things  because 
 usually  any  [music]  kind  of  planting 
 soil  is,  you  know,  worth  its  weight  and 
 gold.  You  want  to  make  sure  that  this  is 
 nice  and  light  [music]  and  easily 
 supported  by  whatever  it  is  that  you're 
 going  to  brace  to  that  tree  because  the 
 goal  is  to  allow  it  to  get  the  nutrients 
 from  this  area  and  the  water  from  this 
 area.  It  [music]  doesn't  need  that.  As 
 long  as  it  gets  enough  here,  it  these 
 roots  that  you're  going  to  see  here  are 
 going  to  attach  the  tree.  [music] 
 Burmilads  are  epipites,  so  they're  not 
 taking  any  kind  of  nutrients  away  from 
 the  tree.  All  they're  doing  is  [music] 
 supporting  themselves  that  way.  We're 
 going  to  do  the  exact  same  thing  with 
 that  one  plant  grouping  that  I  took 
 [music]  out.  Now,  this  guy  didn't 
 separate  very  well  from  the  soil.  All 
 I'm  doing  is  removing  the  soil.  You  see 
 all  of  these  roots?  All  of  this  is 
 staying  [music]  put. 
 >> [music] 
 >> All  right,  you  guys.  So,  we  are  at  the 
 tree  that  we're  going  to  do  our  work  on. 
 However,  I  did  have  my  orchid  grouping. 
 They're  just  felonopsis.  I'm  not  a  big 
 orchid  collector.  I  do  love  the  way 
 these  guys  look.  I  love  the  way  they 
 hang  with  their  white,  beautiful  blooms 
 during  [music]  their  season.  So,  I  did 
 not  want  to  lose  these.  So,  that's  why 
 we're  going  to  work  with  this  tree.  I 
 cut  it  off  about  6t  tall.  I  kind  of  want 
 this  whole  tree  to  almost  turn  into  a 
 column  of  draping  orchids  and  upright 
 burmilads.  So  when  I  did  my  orchids,  the 
 tree  was  alive.  I  didn't  want  to  quite 
 screw  into  it  or  nail  into  it.  What  I 
 opted  to  do  was  incorporate  this  [music] 
 landscape  tie.  Now  this  stretches  and 
 it's  easily  cut  off  once  these  attached. 
 [music]  Now  most  of the  time  I'll  put 
 moss  around  it,  kind  of  disguise  it  a 
 little  bit.  But  now  that  the  tree  is 
 dead,  I  really  can  [music]  decorate  the 
 tree  just  like  you  would  do  a  Christmas 
 tree.  If  your  orchids  and  your  bmilads 
 are  small  enough,  you  can  use  the 
 largest.  These  are  called  fence  [music] 
 staples.  And  then  you  can  just  pretty 
 much  take  the  stem  like  you  see  here. 
 And  you  can  put  the  staple  inside. 
 [music] 
 And  then  you  can  attach  it  to  the  tree 
 and  just  nail  that  [music]  bad  boy  in 
 there. 
 And  that  bad  boy  is  not  going  anywhere. 
 This  stem  happens  to  be  a  little  bit 
 broader,  but  I  do  love  the  idea  of  it 
 going  right  here,  right  near  my  orchid, 
 kind  of  tucked  right  into  this  spot.  I 
 hope  you  guys  can  see  that.  What  you  can 
 do  is  [music]  take  your  typical  2-in 
 nail,  put  the  2-in  nail  kind  of  at  an 
 angle.  So,  you  don't  want  it  to  go 
 straight  in.  You  want  it  to  go  kind  of 
 at  an  upward  angle  like  this. 
 Do  a  second  one  just  a  couple  inches 
 over.  And  then  all  you  want  to  do  is  you 
 want  to  take  your  zip  tie  and  you  want 
 to  take  and  put  this  in  between  those 
 nails.  [music]  Wrap  it  to  the  back  and 
 tighten  that  bad  boy  right  into  his  new 
 home.  It  is  so  easy  whether  you're  using 
 a  staple  or  you're  using  these  guys.  And 
 you  can  [music]  put  it  anywhere  just  by 
 putting  two  side  by  side.  All  you  got  to 
 do  is  nip  this  guy. 
 And  then  if  I've  got  to  do  this  into  a 
 live  tree,  I'm  going  to  put  a  product 
 right  to  my  side  here  of  a  spray  that 
 you  can  put  onto  [music]  any  kind  of 
 screw  that  you've  got.  Let  it  dry.  So 
 you  want  to  put  the  holes  in  there. 
 Spray  that  spray  [music]  and  it  creates 
 almost  like  a  scab  over  it.  Protects  it 
 from  any  pest  or  any  bugs  getting  into 
 that  into  those  holes.  And  then  that  now 
 you  can  apply  your  plant  without  any 
 kind  of  harm  to  the  tree.  Another  option 
 is  to  just  do  just  exactly  what  you  see 
 here.  And  that's  what  I  started  with, 
 which  is  the  tie  method.  So  you  just  all 
 you  want  to  do  is  take  this  landscape 
 ribbon  and  wrap  it  around  the  tree.  You 
 can  do  the  same  thing  with  panty  hose 
 because  they  disintegrate.  All  you  want 
 to  do  is  take  that  single  panty  hose  or 
 kneeh  high  and  wrap  it  around  tie  it  cuz 
 it'll  stretch  a  little  bit  and  it'll 
 support  just  the  same  way.  So  those  are 
 that's  another  option  [music]  there. 
 However,  you  can  disguise  it  with  doing 
 something  like  the  moss  that  you  see 
 here.  So  that's  an  option.  An 
 alternative  option  is  using  these  little 
 bunggees  that  you  have  here.  But  you 
 guys,  these  kind  of  get  expensive.  So, 
 you  notice  that  I  only  have  a  few  of 
 these.  I  started  out  with  these  because 
 I  thought,  gosh,  that's  a  quick  and  easy 
 [music]  way  to  do  it.  But  honestly,  you 
 can  just  like  it  just  takes  no  time  to 
 attach  just  like  this.  [music]  And  it  is 
 the  easiest,  quickest,  and  least 
 expensive  way  to  do  it.  So,  it  has 
 become  my  favorite  way  of  all.  Now, 
 because  this  tree  is  dead,  I'm  going to 
 go  hog  wild.  I'm  going  [music]  to  attach 
 from  bottom  to  top,  all  the  way  around, 
 even  the  center.  I'm  going  to  put 
 burmelads  everywhere  because  I  don't 
 have  to  worry  about  how  many  holes  that 
 I  can  put  into  the  tree.  Let's  make  it  a 
 statement  piece  in  the  garden.  All 
 right,  and  that's  a  wrap  on  that  tree 
 right  there.  I  think  it's  come  along 
 really  well.  It's  turned  [music]  into 
 the  sculpture  that  we're  hoping  that  it 
 will.  And  we've  left  a  little  bit  of 
 room,  a  little  bit  of  areas  for  it  to 
 really  start  to  [music]  spread.  If  you 
 guys  notice,  this  is  a  different  day.  Uh 
 we  lost  so  much  light  the  other  day.  We 
 were  worried  you  guys  wouldn't  be  able 
 to  see  everything  and  especially  into 
 this  next  section  of  the  video.  So,  we 
 are  now  going  to  showcase  a  tree  that  is 
 very  much  so  alive.  So,  let's  pop  over 
 there  and  do  that.  All right.  So,  we 
 have  picked  our  specimen  in  the  garden. 
 We  are  going to  use  my  Ericuri  palm.  It 
 is  a  slow  growing  palm.  So,  this  guy  is 
 going  to  stay  put.  We're  going to  see 
 these  bermilads  for  years  and  years  and 
 years.  I  don't  have  to  worry  about  this 
 guy  being  40  foot  tall  in  no  [laughter] 
 time.  So,  it's  going  to  be  the  perfect 
 tree  for  this  particular  project.  So, 
 we've  went  ahead  and  started  the 
 process.  You  can  see  that  I've  got  some 
 nails  already  installed.  I  did  it  the 
 same  way  that  I  did  the  others.  You 
 [music]  can  see  that  I've  got  two  kind 
 of  side  by  side  at  a  little  bit  of  an 
 angle  here  and  here  and  on  on  the  side. 
 So,  I've  got  a  [music]  few  already 
 going.  So,  if  you  notice  that  you  can 
 see  the  little  hole  marks  that  the  the 
 [music]  nails  have  made.  So,  we  don't 
 want  to  leave  that  exposed  because 
 that's  going  to  leave  these  trees 
 exposed  [music]  for  pest,  bugs,  fungus. 
 I  mean,  just  it's  it's  really  it's  not  a 
 great  thing  for  palm  trees.  Many  of  you 
 guys  have  probably  attached  material  to 
 hardwood  trees  and  with  not  a  problem. 
 And  because  they  do  such  a  fantastic  job 
 of  healing  over  their  wounds,  they're 
 great  about  that.  Palm  trees, 
 unfortunately,  do  not  do  that  on  their 
 own.  If  you  put  a  hole  in  there,  there 
 will  always  be  a  hole  in  there.  So,  you 
 want  to  protect  it  by  sealing  that  hole 
 once  you're  done.  And  that  way,  you  feel 
 a  little  less  guilty  about  putting  a 
 hole  in  a  live  tree.  There  are  several 
 products  on  the  market.  This  is  not  a 
 sponsored  video.  I  just  happen  to  use 
 this  product.  I  like  it.  It's  done  well 
 for  me.  I  don't  have  to  worry  or  lose 
 any  sleep  about  my  DIY  projects  that  I 
 do  on  my  trees.  So,  I'm  going  to  take 
 this  now,  shake  it  really  good  cuz  it 
 can  get  gked  up, 
 and  then  spray  [music]  it  right  on  those 
 holes. 
 Once  it  dries,  you're  good  to  [music] 
 go.  Now,  in  some  cases  where  I've  made 
 some  mistakes,  I  put  in  a  couple 
 different  holes  and  had  to  pop  out  the 
 nail  because  [music]  it,  you  know,  it 
 loosened  or  whatnot,  I'll  do  a  second 
 treatment  of  this.  I'll  go  back  over  top 
 of  it,  but  it  [music]  will  absolutely 
 seal  and  protect  those,  which  is  exactly 
 what  I  want.  So,  the  selection  of 
 burmilads  that  I've  got  here,  I've  got 
 some  margarit  right  here.  These  are  more 
 clumping  vermilads.  So,  these  [music]  I 
 tend  to  put  more  closer  to  the  bottom. 
 And  then  I've  got  some  lemon  lime 
 vermilads  right  here.  [music]  And  then 
 I've  got  some  fireball  vermilads,  which 
 I  really  love.  Now,  these  can  be  mounted 
 differently.  They  can  be  mounted  just 
 like  you  see  here,  or  these,  my  favorite 
 way  to  mount  these  is  using  a  fence 
 staples.  Get  the  larger  variety  of  the 
 fence  staple.  [music]  You  could  just  put 
 a  little  fence  staple  in  here  and  then 
 pop  that  in  there  and  then  it's  done. 
 What  I  love  about  mounting  it  this  way 
 versus  mounting  it  by  ribbon  like  I  have 
 this  orchid  mounted.  The  ribbon  [music] 
 has  a  tendency  to  really  pull  and 
 stretch  some,  so  it  moves  around.  And 
 once  these  guys  get  some  size,  [music] 
 especially  the  bigger  ones  like  these 
 guys,  then  it  has  a  tendency  to  to  pop 
 loose  or  to  drop  too  much  because  if  you 
 guys  are  putting  your  burmilads  on  your 
 trees,  try  not  to  put  them  straight  up 
 like  you  see  here.  Try  to  put  them  at  an 
 angle  like  this  because  that'll  really 
 help  not  getting  mosquitoes  and  not 
 causing  water  to  sit.  It's  an  ideal  way 
 for  every  time  that  it  rains,  it  fills 
 those  cups  up  and  then  drains  out.  And  I 
 think  it  almost  looks  nicer  when  it's 
 kind  of  shooting  right  out  there  saying 
 hello  as  you  walk  through  the  garden 
 versus  straight  up.  And  I  see  them  often 
 straight  up  like  we  were  to  plant  them 
 in  the  ground.  But  I  personally  [music] 
 like  this  look.  And  because  they're  so 
 nice  and  secured,  no matter  how  many  get 
 on  it,  that  zip  tie  really  keeps  this 
 [music]  nice  and  snug.  We  are  going  to 
 pop  this  guy.  What  I'm  doing  is  I'm 
 centering  this  stock  here  on  the  middle 
 of  my  two  [music]  nails.  And  then  I'm 
 just  going  to  wrap  the  three  nails  and 
 the  stock  nice  and  [music]  snugly 
 together.  All right.  So  you  guys  can  see 
 that  the  two  nails  on  either  side  are 
 really  helping  support  this.  I'm  going 
 to  clip  this  off.  And  then  this  stock 
 that  you're  going  to  [music]  see  here, 
 I'm  going  to  add  just  some  some  moss  and 
 kind  of  just  disguise  that  a  little  bit. 
 [music]  But  don't  worry  about  this  being 
 open  because  we're  going  to  put  another 
 burmilad  here  and  here  and  here.  And 
 well,  you  get  the  point,  right?  All 
 right,  you  guys.  So  until  I  can  get 
 around  to  trimming  any  more  burmeads, 
 this  is  going  to  suffice  for  right  now. 
 It's  We're  definitely  off  to  a  very 
 [music]  good  start.  You  can  kind  of  see 
 how  we're  climbing  up  the  tree.  I'm 
 thinking  about  putting  in  some  bird's 
 nest  ferns  along  the  bottom  because  of 
 course  they're  epoites,  too.  So,  I  can 
 easily  kind  of  pile  them  around  the 
 bottom  to  kind  of  give  us  almost  like  a 
 just  a  soft  pillowy  effect.  So,  I  think 
 that  that's  going  to  come  together  real 
 well.  I  think  we  might  have  a  few  more 
 of  these  in  us  in  the  future.  So,  thank 
 you  guys  again.  If  you  enjoyed  today's 
 video,  then  check  out  last  week's  video. 
 I'll  ask  Bryce  to  put  it  right  here.  And 
 we  will  see  you  guys  next  Saturday. 
 Thanks.

---

 Well,  hello  true  gardeners.  [music] 
 Welcome  back.  So,  today  we  are  in  a  full 
 cool full  corner  lot  front  yard.  [music] 
 So,  those  of  you  guys  who  might  have  a 
 little  bit  more  space  to  work  with  and 
 really  like  kind  of  a  jazzy  Alice  and 
 Wonderland  kind  of  look,  kind  of,  you 
 know,  one  layer  on  top  of  another  layer 
 and  just  kind  of  some  fun  interesting 
 [music]  features  in  a  garden,  then  hang 
 out  because  today's  video  is  all  about 
 bringing  out  some  really  cool  features. 
 We  did  this  landscaping  a  couple  years 
 ago  and  then  came  in  as  things  grew  up 
 and  added  in  a  few  more  pieces.  [music] 
 So,  I  thought  today  we  would  shoot  this 
 video  and  share  with  you  guys  this  cool 
 front  yard. 
 The  very  first  two  things  I  want  to 
 start  with  are  these  cool  mama  jamas 
 behind  me.  These  [music]  mass  trees  I 
 think  are  so  awesome.  I  just  love  the 
 way  they  look.  I  love  the  way  they  frame 
 the  front  of  the  house.  I  love  their 
 size.  Are  they  huge?  Yes.  [music]  I 
 absolutely  love  the  way  they  look.  This 
 house  has  a  nice  large  front  entrance 
 and  I  felt  like  this  section  of  the 
 house  kind  of  drops  down  just  a  tad.  So 
 having  something  with  some  additional 
 height  kind  of  gives  it  balance.  Now 
 this  is  [music]  a  big  front  corner  lot. 
 So  I  think  it  really  called  for  some 
 dramatic  feel.  Now  you  can  do  that  with 
 palm  trees  all  day  [music]  long.  But  if 
 you  like  this  kind  of  look,  you  kind  of 
 like  that  leaf  structure,  then  why  not 
 try  something  a  little  bit  unusual  like 
 these  mass  trees  [music]  because  they 
 are  super  cool  and  I  do  not  have  them 
 yet  in  my  garden. 
 The  next  thing  is  this  screw  pine.  So, 
 I'm  going  to  get  Bryce  to  pop  in  a 
 picture  of  what  these  guys  look  like 
 when  they  get  really  big  and  mature 
 because  they  are  phenomenal.  What  an 
 interesting  sculpture  [music]  in  a 
 garden.  I  just  think  that  these  are  so 
 unique,  so  different.  Definitely,  it  has 
 to  be  kind  of  the  right  space.  It  has  to 
 be  kind  of  the  right  look  for  your  area. 
 But  if  you  have  that  spot  and  you're 
 like,  you  know,  I  kind  of  need  something 
 that  really  stands  on  its  own,  something 
 that's  really  dynamic,  something  that  I 
 can  let  get  big  and  get  chunky,  and  this 
 guy  will  do  just  that.  And  we've  got 
 several  of  them  in  this  yard  because 
 they're  going to  be  showstoppers  [music] 
 as  they  grow  in  and  mature  over  the  next 
 5  to  10  years.  They're  going  to  be  even 
 more  stunning. 
 And  one  of  the  next  things  I  wanted  to 
 show  off  in  this  space  is  [music]  the 
 centerpiece  that  we  chose.  Now,  when  you 
 have  something  dynamic  like  these  mass 
 trees  here,  you  don't  want  to  put 
 something  too  large  or  too  bulky  in 
 front  of  it.  [music]  So,  having 
 something  like  the  European  fan  palm 
 that's  going  to  take  20  years  to  get  any 
 real  size  to  it  [music]  is  an  ideal 
 thing  to  incorporate  because  it  is  kind 
 of  a  completely  different  palm  [music] 
 structure,  completely  different  look. 
 You  guys  take  a  look  at  that.  But  isn't 
 that  kind  of  really  a  cool  interesting 
 feel?  [music]  You  can  really  see  what 
 this  European  fan  palm  does  in  front  of 
 the  window  area  on  this  blank  space.  I 
 didn't  want  to  have  a  big  giant 
 clustering  behind  this  area,  but  we  do 
 have  the  open  spaces  on  either  side  of 
 the  window  here.  So,  I  chose  [music]  a 
 dwarfed  croin.  Now,  I  know  those  don't 
 look  dwarf,  but  those  are  very  old.  I 
 brought  them  in  at  25  gallon  size.  So, 
 they  are  a  nice  big  size  for  what  is 
 technically  a  dwarfed  croin.  So,  they 
 won't  they're  going  to  grow  super  slow 
 because  it  is  a  tight  little  area  back 
 there.  They're  related  to  the  mammy 
 croins,  but  they're  called  the  dwarf 
 banana  croins.  And  they're  on  both  sides 
 here  offering  a  nice  bit  of  pop  of  color 
 from  the  road.  I  think  they  do  such  a 
 good  job  of  doing  that  without  getting 
 in  the  way  of  everything  else.  They're 
 going  to  really  hold  their  own  and 
 [music]  stand  compact  together.  Do  not 
 forget  to  hit  that  notification  bell 
 somewhere  up  here.  Like  and  subscribe  if 
 you  like  this  kind  of  content  and  you'd 
 like  to  see  me  [music]  in  your  feed 
 every  once  in  a  while.  It  is  the  perfect 
 pat  on  the  back  that  you  guys  do  enjoy 
 these  videos  after  all.  or  don't  do  it. 
 And  then  maybe  I  will  know  that  you  just 
 didn't  like  it  and  we'll  try  something 
 different  next  time.  [laughter]  No,  I'm 
 just  joking.  Then  down  below,  it's  gonna 
 [music]  soften  it  with  some  sloppy 
 painters  at  the  base  to  really  engulf 
 the  base  of  that  European  [music]  fan 
 palm.  Now,  a  lot  of  us  love  those  fronds 
 on  the  European  fan  palm,  but  not  so 
 crazy  about  the  trunks  [music]  on  them. 
 So,  I  think  that's  going  to  do  a  nice 
 job  of  softening  those  trunks  without 
 losing  the  look  of  this  upper  canopy  of 
 the  frond.  [music]  Then  we  chose  to 
 bring  in  a  decent  sized  boulder  here  in 
 the  center  and  then  do  a  halo  of 
 burmilads.  These  are  Johannis  burmilads 
 along  the  rear  side  of  them  and  Margaret 
 vermilads  along  the  front  with  a  touch 
 of  foxtail  agave  just  to  kind  of  give 
 this  little  centerpiece  a  little  bit  of 
 a  an  interest.  Now  you'll  notice  that 
 everything  that  we  have  to  the  front  of 
 the  European  fan  palm  is  quite  a  bit 
 smaller.  Everything  to  the  back  is  going 
 to  get  quite  a  bit  larger.  So  that's 
 kind  of  the  goal.  You  want  to  make  sure 
 your  rear  material  is  your  big  material 
 and  then  you  taper  down  from  there.  So 
 these  are  never  going  to  compete  with 
 what  is  behind  it.  And  then  we  have  a 
 little  clustering  of  Petetroins  on  both 
 sides  just  to  give  us  another  pop  of 
 color  because  keep  in  mind  this  is  what 
 you  see  as  you  come  around  the  curb  in 
 the  front  yard.  I  would  say  your  eyes 
 drawn  to  [music]  this  particular  spot 
 quite  a  bit.  So  having  some  balance  of 
 some  yellows  and  greens  and  some  oranges 
 and  some  reds.  I  really  do  think  that's 
 going to  do  a  [music]  nice  job  of  giving 
 us  that  pop  of  color.  And  then  we 
 separate  it  down  a  little  bit.  Then  we 
 went  in  with  some  nice  7gallon  dwarf 
 carissa  [music]  boxwood.  And  those  are 
 going  to  kind  of  come  around  here  and 
 then  break.  And  then  we're  going  to  get 
 into  a  little  bit  of  the  controlled 
 planting  cuz  [music]  you  guys  know  how  I 
 like  a  little  mix  of  both.  We've  got  the 
 mam  croins  to  the  front.  A  [music]  nice 
 sea  of  mami  croins.  And  to  brighten  up 
 those  mam  croins,  we  have  some  java 
 white  copper  leaves.  And  they're  really 
 going  to  become  a  nice  backdrop  to 
 another  accent  that  y'all  know  I  like  to 
 use,  which  is  the  Queen  Emma.  [music]  We 
 have  three  Queen  Emma's  coming  right  up 
 the  front  driveway  area  in  a  staggered 
 kind  of  triangular  formation.  They're 
 still  young.  They're  going  to  really 
 flush  out  and  become  nice  size  right 
 there.  But  I  think  that's  going  to  do  a 
 beautiful  job.  Now,  we've  got  the  mammy 
 croins  here,  but  then  we've  got  a 
 clustering  of  Pinocchio  Croins  here  and 
 right  by  the  house  there.  This  time  of 
 the  year,  it's  more  of  like  a  fall 
 coloring.  During  the  summer,  they're 
 more  of  the  reds  and  more  of  the  yellows 
 and  just  less  orange.  So,  I  think  that's 
 a  really  good  look.  But  overall,  they're 
 going  to  come  in  around  4ft  tall.  Really 
 kind  of  giving  this  some  support  in  this 
 area.  I  know  up  north  boxwood  is  kind  of 
 used  more  in  a  hedgeike  formation.  And 
 you  can  use  these  guys  this  way,  but  I 
 like  to  use  them  in  this  kind  of  ground 
 cover  formation  where  it's  more  rounded, 
 more  clumped,  more  individual  instead  of 
 one  solid  grouping.  So,  I  pushed  these 
 far  enough  apart  where  these  are  going 
 to  be  maintained  individually.  They  have 
 a  nice  shiny  green  leaf  and  nothing 
 that's  going  to  compete,  nothing  that's 
 going  to  come  over  into  this  way  being 
 [music]  4  foot  tall.  They're  always 
 going  to  stay  a  nice  compact  smaller 
 grouping.  This  is  the  emerald  blanket 
 variety  of  the  Carissa  boxwood.  So,  it's 
 on  the  [music]  smaller  side  of  all  the 
 boxwood. 
 And  then,  of  course,  we  have  our  taller 
 palm  trees.  We  have  the  double 
 Montgomery  here.  We  have  the  Sylvester 
 on  the  corner.  All right,  you  guys 
 already  saw  [music]  the  screw  pine 
 anchoring  the  opposite  side.  So,  we  have 
 some  nice  palm  trees  that  are  adding  to 
 the  height  of  those  mass  trees,  kind  of 
 giving  the  front  some  balance. 
 All  right,  so  if  you  guys  have  problem 
 areas  in  your  yard,  no  matter  where  they 
 are,  we  all  know  we  all  have  them  and  we 
 are  looking  for  remedies  for  them. 
 [music]  So,  if  your  problem  area  is  like 
 Scott's  problem  area,  which  was  right  by 
 the  front  door  where  [music]  everybody 
 saw  this  was  a  this  was  a  nuisance 
 space.  This  area  had  been  planted 
 multiple  multiple  times  and  things  just 
 kept  dying  off.  There  was  just  too  much 
 moisture  in  this  area.  You  can  see  this 
 is  a  pretty  large  roof  here  and  all  the 
 water  collects  and  even  with  gutters,  it 
 just  pours  into  this  particular  spot.  So 
 when  we  had  mulch  and  when  there  was 
 plants  here,  it  just  it  just  always 
 looked  bad.  It  always  needed  fungus 
 treatment.  We  couldn't  plant  much  in  the 
 soil  and  it  was  really  hard  to  kind  of 
 make  a  squared  off  area  look  organic. 
 So,  what  we  chose  to  do  is  bring  in 
 three  coina  boulders  like  you  see  here 
 and  then  three  pots.  And  you  can  see 
 that  they're  both  sharing  the  same 
 angle.  A  triangular  formation  going 
 forward  with  this  being  the  centerpiece 
 and  a  triangular  formation  going  forward 
 with  being  this  being  the  [music] 
 centerpiece.  We  took  most  of  the  plant 
 material  and  framed  it  around  the 
 middle.  So,  we  have  some  variations, 
 some  [music]  different  elements  in  the 
 garden.  And  then  we  took  and  put  a  dune 
 palm  as  a  centerpiece,  some  imperialis 
 vermilads  around  the  corners  and  letting 
 these  little  margaret  burmilads  at  the 
 bottom  that  are  going  to  drape  [music] 
 down.  This  pot  was  huge  getting  in  here. 
 It  was  it  was  no  easy  feat,  [music] 
 but  my  goodness,  it  needed  to  be 
 something  substantial.  I  couldn't  put  a 
 little  pot  in  this  area  and  [music]  be 
 like,  "Well,  it's  all  done."  I  needed 
 two  of  the  pots  in  the  back  to  support 
 the  middle  pot.  Those  two  vertical  pots 
 with  those  [music]  two  Song  of  India 
 towards  the  back  really  help  frame  this 
 wide  and  chunky  pot.  We  topped  it  off 
 with  some  Tahesian  gray  granite  at  the 
 base.  And  actually,  believe  it  or  not, 
 these  vermilads  right  here  are  planted 
 [music]  in  a  larger  pot.  So  that  way 
 they're  protected  from  a  little  bit  of 
 that  moisture.  And  you  can  do  that 
 without  having  any  problems  cuz  they're 
 getting  their  nutrients  from  the  top, 
 not  [music]  from  the  roots.  But  they 
 will  die  from  root  rot  if  they're 
 sitting  in  water.  So,  if  you've  got  a 
 wet  area  and  you  want  to  protect  them, 
 put  them  in  a  larger  pot  and  then  put 
 them  in  the  ground.  However,  to  the 
 back,  I  wanted  something  a  little  wild 
 and  crazy.  So,  we  went  with  some  giant 
 aposle  iris  because,  as  you  guys 
 probably  know,  I  have  these  in  my  pond. 
 These  can  grow  straight  in  the  water. 
 They  can  be  drought  tolerant.  So,  don't 
 be  afraid  to  use  them. 
 All right,  you  guys.  So,  as  wonderful  as 
 those  features  are,  I  have  saved  the 
 best  for  last.  I  am  in  love  with  these 
 particular  accents  in  this  bed  over 
 here.  So  we'll  start  with  the  first  tree 
 here  which  is  the  Bismar  palm.  This  tree 
 was  planted  by  us  a  few  years  ago  and 
 has  really  grown  in.  We've  got  the 
 regularsiz  banana  leaf  croins  to  the 
 back  and  then  we've  got  some  mammy 
 croins  kind  of  [music]  crossed  along  the 
 front  here.  And  those  are  great.  They're 
 going  to  be  a  nice  lowmaintenance 
 planting  right  by  the  driveway.  But  what 
 I  love  what  I  love  love love  the 
 combination  of  the  boulder,  the 
 yuckarista,  [music] 
 the  triple  bottle  palm.  I  just  love  the 
 way  that  looks  and  then  a  halo  of 
 Petetroins  to  the  back.  So,  we've  got  a 
 couple  farfujiums  at  the  base  of  the 
 bottle  palm.  Now,  you  can  do  that  in 
 what  will  technically  be  a  full  sun 
 environment  because  these  trees  right 
 [music]  here  and  that  bottle  palm  are 
 offering  enough  shade  for  [music]  that 
 farfugeium  to  flourish  and  not  only 
 flourish,  but  bloom,  bloom,  bloom  like 
 crazy.  [music] 
 It's  not  stopped  since  we  planted  it. 
 They're  super  happy  in  that  spot.  So  all 
 of  that  added  coverage  is  really  helping 
 them  just  do  so  well  in  that  spot.  And 
 then  to  the  back  there,  as  I  mentioned, 
 those  are  Petror  Croins,  and  the  color 
 on  those  are  absolutely  [music] 
 stunning.  Again,  they  do  so  well  with  a 
 little  bit  of  protection  from  the  sun. 
 And  that  little  spot  right  there  just 
 does  it  just  for  them.  We  really  worked 
 with  the  curve.  You  can  see  that  curves 
 out.  Then  we  have  it  drop  in  here,  and 
 then  curve  back  out  here.  when  you  have 
 a  drop  in  anywhere  or  when  you  have  a 
 pop  out,  those  are  two  really  good  areas 
 to  kind  of  create  something  that  draws 
 your  eye.  And  I  think  that  this  little 
 section  right  here  just  draws  your  eye 
 right  to  this  bed.  Having  the 
 centerpiece  coina  boulder,  you  can  see 
 it's  kind  of  elevated  up.  It's  kind  of 
 working  with  the  grade  of  the  yard, 
 which  is  pretty  much  what  we  mean.  We 
 just  kind  of  dug  out  the  front  a  little 
 bit,  pitched  it  in,  and  then  took  the 
 soil  that  we  dug  out  and  put  it  to  the 
 back  so  it's  lifted  up  so  it  makes  the 
 boulder  look  and  appear  [music]  like 
 it's  inset  into  the  ground.  and  then 
 took  the  rear  side  of  it  and  framed  it 
 with  these  yucka  restradas. 
 Yuckaarestradas  are  thornless.  You  can 
 kind  of  go  right  along  this  end  [music] 
 and  touch  them  without  any  kind  of 
 problems.  They  do  have  a  little  bit  of  a 
 point  at  the  leaf,  but  it's  not 
 something  that's  going  to  [music]  stab 
 you.  It's  just  a  little  point.  These 
 will  stay  small  for  a  good  period  of 
 time.  They  grow  very  very  slow, 
 approximately  four  to  six  [music]  inches 
 a  year.  So,  pretty  slow  growing  accent 
 feature.  But  when  they  get  bigger, 
 that's  when  they  really  come  to  town. 
 kind  of  got  a  cool  trunk  and  then  the 
 the  leaves  kind  of  fall  down  a  little 
 bit.  I  I'll  get  see  if  I  can  get  Bryce 
 [music]  to  post  a  picture  of  what  they 
 look  like  because  they're  just  so 
 stunning  when  they  get  a  little  bit  of 
 size  to  them.  This  is  a  king  Alexander 
 here  to  the  back.  A  single  King 
 Alexander.  Then  we've  got  a  coconut  palm 
 and  a  coconut  palm  on  either  side. 
 This  little  area  we  have  some  black 
 magics  clustered  [music]  together  for  a 
 wild  look.  See  all  of  that  woody 
 stemness  that  I  do  not  love.  And  so 
 these  guys  as  they  mature,  and  they 
 mature  very  quickly,  they're  going  to 
 come  in  and  fill  in  all  around  this 
 space.  And  that's  what's  going  to  give 
 you  that  dark,  dark  color  and  that 
 little  bit  of  that  wild  look  once  that 
 all  comes  together  and  starts  to  happen. 
 What  we  were  looking  at  was  the  other 
 side  of  the  driveway.  Now  we  were  on  the 
 main  side.  So  we  are  on  the  final  corner 
 of  the  lot.  This  was  just  meant  to  be  a 
 buffer  planting.  So,  if  you  guys  have 
 that  corner  of  the  lot,  maybe  you  got  a 
 long  fence  like  my  customer  Scott  has 
 here  and  you  kind  of  want  to  soften  that 
 fence,  we  chose  to  put  a  Kucia  hedge  to 
 the  back  [music]  that  softens  that  fence 
 line  look.  And  then  to  give  them  real 
 privacy  to  the  backyard,  look  at  how 
 beautiful  those  fishtail  palms  [music] 
 are.  Nice  dark  green,  big  clumping.  We 
 have  a  nice  grouping.  I  think  there's 
 four  back  there,  believe  it  or  not. 
 Planted  three  years  ago,  and  look  how 
 gorgeous  and  beautiful  they  look  today. 
 All  right.  So,  we  have  another 
 centerpiece  palm,  the  silver  bismaria 
 palm.  This  guy  is  just  beautiful  and 
 stunning  and  large,  backed  by  the  black 
 magic  like  we  have  on  the  opposite  side. 
 We  have  the  dwarf  screw  pine  variety. 
 These  guys  that  [music]  stay  small, 
 don't  get  big.  And  I  think  that  that 
 just  adds  a  little  bit  of  ump,  a  little 
 bit  of  interest.  And  then  because  this 
 yard  is  so  large  and  it  is  on  [music] 
 such  an  open  street,  we  really  wanted 
 like  a  pow-wow,  a  punch  of  something  big 
 at  the  very  end,  at  the  very  corner.  So, 
 we  have  a  Hong  Kong  orchid  right  at  the 
 end  of  this  yard.  And  oh  my  goodness, 
 look  at  these  dancing  blooms.  Look 
 [music]  at  just  how  stunning.  And  if  you 
 guys  are  here  that  time  of  the  year, 
 this  time  of  the  the  fall  season  into 
 into  spring,  then  this  is  a  tree  that 
 you  might  want  to  consider  in  your 
 garden  because  although  it  does  get  big, 
 it  blooms  those  months  of  the  year  and 
 gives  you  the  best  coloring.  All  right, 
 so  I  hope  you  guys  enjoyed  some  of  these 
 favorites  that  we  talked  about  today.  If 
 you  guys  have  my  book,  you  know  my  50 
 favorite  plants  and  trees  that  I  use 
 very,  very  often  throughout  my  landscape 
 designs  and  I've  used  over  the  past  25 
 years  and  had  super  success  with  it.  We 
 will  be  sure  to  post  the  link  down  below 
 of  our  book  on  Amazon.  We  are  very  super 
 proud  of  it  and  we  hope  that  you  guys 
 will  enjoy  it  and  get  a  lot  of  good 
 information  for  your  gardens.  Those  of 
 you  guys  who  need  a  little  bit  more  a 
 little  bit  more  information  than  that, 
 then  please  reach  out  to  [music]  us.  We 
 offer  three  services.  Of  course,  I'm  a 
 landscape  designer,  so  we  do  landscape 
 designs  [music]  and  we  do  landscape 
 installations.  If  you're  in  our  area,  we 
 also  offer  a  complete  landscape  design 
 service  [music]  master  plan  where  if 
 you're  looking  to  have  it  done  over  time 
 or  you're  looking  to  work  directly  with 
 a  contractor,  this  is  a  plan  that  you 
 can  [music]  take  and  transfer  it  right 
 to  a  contractor  and  have  them  install  it 
 over  a  period  of  time.  Or  if  you  are 
 looking  for  just  that  tough  spot  in  your 
 garden,  you're  you're  not  really  sure 
 what  to  do  [music]  in  a  particular  spot. 
 I  offer  1-hour  virtual  consultations. 
 That's  with  me.  We  look  at  pictures  of 
 your  particular  spot.  We  walk  through 
 them  together  on  the  phone  like  a  Zoom 
 meeting  and  then  I  overlay  the  plants 
 and  trees  on  my  computer  to  kind  of 
 share  with  you  what  I  would  do  in  your 
 [music]  space.  So,  if  there's  any  of 
 those  services  that  would  be  helpful  to 
 you  guys,  then  reach  out  to  us.  You'll 
 reach  Marissa  and  she'll  let  you  know 
 all  the  details  and  see  if  we're  going 
 to  be  a  good  fit  for  what  you're  looking 
 for.  Thank  you  guys  so  much  for  visiting 
 with  me  today  at  this  beautiful  home.  I 
 will  see  you  guys  next  week  in  next 
 week's  garden  tour.  Take  care.

---

 Well,  hello  there  gardeners.  [music] 
 So,  today's  video  is  all  about  small 
 spaces  in  a  yard  that  make  huge,  [music] 
 huge  impacts.  So,  today  we  are  going  to 
 tour  this  sideyard  garden.  Yes,  [music] 
 I  said  it.  Sideyard  garden.  You  know, 
 those  spaces  that  are  usually  neglected 
 or  overlooked  or  where  you  store  trash 
 cans  and  whatnot.  Those  little  areas, 
 those  [music]  little  little  slices  of 
 land  that  we  have  on  either  side  of  our 
 houses  that  are  relatively  wasted  space, 
 you  know,  a  patch  of  grass.  In  this 
 particular  area,  there  was  [music] 
 nothing  but  dying  grass,  thin  grass  that 
 really  just  didn't  appeal  to  my  clients. 
 So,  what  we  did  is  we  created  a  side 
 buffer  from  the  neighbors  and  then 
 layered  in  a  landscape.  Now,  this  was  a 
 two-stage  landscape  because  we  had  to 
 let  things  grow  up  before  we  patched 
 [music]  in.  So,  you  guys  might  remember 
 this  video  from  before  when  we  initially 
 put  a  lot  of  this  tree  material  in,  but 
 now  that  tree  material  has  really  grown 
 up,  leaving  us  room  to  put  in  a 
 secondary  tier  underneath.  And  I  think 
 it's  really  come  together  so  [music] 
 nicely.  So,  let's  check  out  this  private 
 garden.  This  is  the  sideyard.  And  just 
 to  kind  of  give  you  guys  a  quick  point 
 of  [music]  reference,  we  are  in,  of 
 course,  the  backyard  on  this  side  of  the 
 yard.  This  is  closest  to  the  neighbor 
 side  here.  And  from  the  screen  room  to 
 the  edge  of  the  property  line  is  21  ft. 
 And  that  is  the  widest  section  of  the 
 yard.  And  then  it  starts  to  narrow  as  we 
 get  further  to  the  backyard  section.  Not 
 a  lot  of  room  like  I  mentioned,  right? 
 So,  a  lot  of  the  plants  and  the  trees 
 that  we're  going  to  talk  about  today  are 
 vertical  plants  and  trees,  things  that 
 kind  of  grow  nice  and  tall,  allowing  you 
 to  really  apply  a  secondary  tier  or  a 
 lower  tier  down  below.  We  have  a  gate 
 leading  into  the  backyard.  And  I  love 
 this  pygmy  [music]  8  palm.  We've  got  a 
 triple  pigment  8  palm  right  on  the 
 corner  of  the  house.  Looking  from  the 
 road,  it  does  such  a  beautiful  job  of 
 really  softening  this  entrance,  kind  of 
 giving  us  almost  like  a  [music]  like  a 
 secret  garden  type  of  feel.  I  just  love 
 what  it  does.  It's  so  lacy.  It's  so 
 soft.  And  I  wanted  to  make  sure 
 something  that  didn't  grow  over  the  roof 
 in  this  particular  spot  because  I  wanted 
 something  pretty  big  and  pretty  [music] 
 significant  on  this  blank  wall  and  to 
 support  hiding  this  fence,  but  also  not 
 [music]  be  too  too  tall  for  this  area. 
 However,  on  the  opposite  side,  as  we  get 
 to  this  corner  here,  I  definitely  wanted 
 weight.  I  wanted  heaviness.  That's  the 
 the  neighbor's  house.  They've  got  a 
 white  house.  I  wanted  to  soften  that.  I 
 wanted  you  to  feel  like  you're  outside 
 of  a  neighborhood  once  everything  grows 
 in  and  flushes  out.  And  [music]  that's 
 kind  of the  goal  here.  So,  this  fishtail 
 palm  is  going  to  do  a  good  job  of 
 clumping  and  becoming  a  25  30  foot 
 clustered  palm  tree  in  this  particular 
 area.  And  absolutely  stunning.  [music] 
 And  these  individual  leaves  like  this,  I 
 don't  know  if  they'll  capture,  but  if 
 you  look  up,  you'll  start  to  see  they're 
 branching  out  and  they'll  come  over 
 towards  the  pygmy  8  palm  and  kind  of 
 lean  over.  So,  as  both  of  these  trees 
 mature  over  time,  they're  going  to  both 
 [music]  do  this  and  kind  of  create 
 almost  an  arbor  feel  over  top  of  this 
 walkway.  Really  giving  you  that  leaf 
 onleaf  kind  of  jungle  [music]  experience 
 before  you  even  enter  the  pathway.  And 
 so,  for  the  second  space,  right,  coming 
 right  off  of  the  front,  I  [music]  chose 
 gold  dust  croins.  Now,  you  know,  there's 
 a  lot  of  things  that  you  can  do  in  this 
 [music]  particular  space.  And  I  had  the 
 green  light  to  go  jungle  crazy.  That 
 doesn't  mean  because  we're  doing  jungle 
 that  we  can  just  do  plant  on  [music] 
 plant  on  plant  on  plant  and  stuff  a 
 bunch  of  material  in  there  and  hope  for 
 the  best.  You  really  do  want  to  pay 
 attention  to  [music] 
 how  much  room  you  have  to  work  with 
 things  because  you  don't  want  to  do  tons 
 and  tons  of  maintenance.  I  wanted 
 something  that  was  going  to  come  up  to 
 the  fence  line  but  grow  super  super 
 slowly.  Wouldn't  overtake  and  get  into 
 this  area  and  get  into  this  area  over 
 here  and  you  needed  something  [music] 
 that  was  going  to  stay  nice  and  compact. 
 Gold  dust  croins  do  a  great  job  of  that. 
 Their  brothers  on  the  other  hand,  which 
 are  the  sloppy  painter  croins,  would  not 
 do  so  good  here.  They're  the  the 
 branching.  They're  the  ones  that  reach 
 out  and  grab  you  and  say,  "Hello, 
 welcome  to  the  jungle."  These  guys  will 
 not.  They're  very  polite.  They  have  a 
 perfect  place  in  the  garden.  And  this  is 
 something  like  that  for  them.  And  just 
 down  below  them,  because  you  can  see  the 
 bed  opens  up  a  little  bit  on  this  side. 
 We  put  in  just  a  dabbed  in  a  little  bit 
 of  foxtail  ferns.  This  does  a  nice  job 
 of  just  kind  of  camouflaging  any  stems 
 that  these  guys  are  going  to  get  over 
 time.  Now  to  the  other  side.  You'll  see 
 that  we  chose  a  backdrop  of  a  palms. 
 Now,  this  is  going  to  give  them  pretty 
 instantaneous  [music]  privacy  and  they 
 really  are  flushing  out  and  doing  super 
 super  well.  I  love  their  arching 
 branches.  I  love  what  they  offer.  Those 
 of  you  guys  who  have  a  palms  [music]  in 
 a  slightly  shaded  area,  maybe  on  the 
 north  side  of  the  house,  and  they're 
 they're  just  not  getting  that  harshest 
 rays  of  the  sun,  they're  going  to  be  so 
 much  greener,  so  much  nicer.  Look  how 
 nice  and  deep  green  these  guys  are.  Now, 
 there's  a  couple  different  options  with 
 the  palms.  Now,  you  can  let  your  Eureka 
 palm  stay  full  and  thick  and  dense,  or 
 you  can  allow  them,  you  can  trim  them  up 
 a  little  bit  and  see  more  of  the  bamboo 
 trunklike  stock  to  them.  I  love  this 
 combination.  I  love  being  able  to  have 
 the  power  of  doing  that.  Some  people 
 love  that.  Some  people  hate  that  option. 
 Some  people  want  a  tree  [music]  to  kind 
 of  stay  more  of  a  natural  open  look.  If 
 you're  in  zone  10A  or  warmer,  you  could 
 use  the  Kabata  palm.  It  does  produce 
 growth  at  the  bottom,  but  quite  a  bit 
 slower,  and  the  canes  are  a  little  bit 
 more  white.  So,  and  then  our  secondary 
 tree  that  we  had  two  pulled  forward 
 because  of  course  I  wanted  some  some 
 stature  in  here.  We  brought  in  two  King 
 Alexander  palms.  Now,  this  is  part  of 
 the  the  landscaping  a  couple  years  ago 
 because  we  did  not  have  access  to  bring 
 giant  trees  in  right  away.  But  guys, 
 just  like  Florida,  2  years  and  look  at 
 the  growth.  I  mean,  these  trees  were 
 maybe  10t  tall  when  we  brought  them  in 
 originally  and  now  I  would  say  they're 
 close  to  1920  and  they're  [music]  just 
 absolutely  stunners  in  the  garden.  They 
 really  give  you  that  really  cool 
 interesting  [music]  base  with  that  green 
 trunk.  And  what  I  like  about  these  kind 
 of  trees  in  the  in  a  jungle  inspired 
 garden  is  they  give  you  enough  canopy  up 
 overhead,  [music]  but  the  clearance  all 
 along  the  bottom.  Now,  that  allows  for 
 room.  We  can  put  vermilads  on  these 
 trees.  We  could  put  stagghorns  on  these 
 trees  or  we  can  layer  landscape  [music] 
 ginger  all  the  way  around  them  like  we 
 have  here.  These  are  new.  So,  in  time, 
 they're  going  to  grow  up  and  be  a  nice 
 [music]  9  to  10  foot  all  the  way  around 
 the  base.  kind  of  giving  you  a  vertical 
 look  to  the  garden  and  it's  still  giving 
 you  that  nice  pop  of  canopy  coverage  at 
 the  top.  For  those  of  you  guys  who  have 
 diyed  it  up  [music]  and  you  are  over 
 that  and  you're  looking  to  have  this 
 landscaping  done  for  you,  then  you  know 
 I  am  a  landscape  designer  of  25  years 
 and  we  have  a  landscape  design  and 
 installation  service  and  we'd  be  happy 
 to  meet  with  you  and  see  if  we  can  help 
 you  in  your  garden.  Then  reach  out  to  us 
 because  we  have  a  landscape  design 
 service  only.  And  then  we  have  a  third 
 option,  virtual  consult  is  a  1-hour 
 consultation  with  me.  We  walk  through 
 your  garden  through  photos  and  we  share 
 some  ideas,  some  things  that  I  would  do 
 in  the  space.  I  will  place  plants  and 
 trees  onto  the  screen.  So  that  [music] 
 way  we  can  visually  kind  of  see  what  I 
 would  do  with  your  landscaping  in  hopes 
 that  it  might  help  really  give  you  that 
 encouragement  to  get  out  in  the  garden. 
 So  if  any  of  those  three  services  appeal 
 to  you  guys,  then  reach  out  to  us.  All 
 of  our  contact  information  is  [music] 
 down  below.  So  right  here  in  this 
 corner,  we  have  a  good  amount  of 
 opening.  This  is  the  bigger  section  of 
 the  gardens.  A  nice  grouping  of  these 
 krenum  lilies  that  we  needed  to  find  a 
 place  for.  So,  what  I  did  is  I  collected 
 them  in  in  a  couple  little  areas,  but 
 this  is  the  main  area  that  I  collected 
 them  in.  They're  going  to  fill  out  and 
 become  nice  and  broad  and  big  and  leafy 
 and  absolutely  [music]  stunning  in  this 
 particular  spot  and  give  us  a  good  6T  to 
 7t  of  height  right  in  this  corner. 
 However,  what  they  do  is  they  leave  a 
 stem  behind,  a  stock  [music]  behind, 
 which  in  my  world  is  a  beautiful  thing. 
 In  a  lot  of  people's  world,  they  don't 
 love  it  because  you  see  that  big  stock. 
 But  what  it  does  allow  for  is  it  allows 
 you  to  layer  underneath  of  that  as  that 
 tree  grows.  So  right  down  below,  we've 
 got  some  variegated  ginger,  some  dwarf 
 ginger  at  the  bottom  that  are  going  to 
 really  engulf  that  whole  bottom  base. 
 And  then  there's  just  going to  be  a 
 dramatic  interest.  So  you  get  the  beauty 
 of  both  material.  Again,  that  leaves  us 
 with  room  to  bring  in  something  like 
 those  Rojo  Congos.  I  mean,  look  at  the 
 shiny,  gorgeous  leaves  of  the  Rojo 
 Congos.  They  are  just  so  so  [music] 
 stunning.  These  are  a  couple  years  old. 
 They  went  in  with  the  original 
 landscaping.  And  when  they  went  in,  you 
 guys,  there  was  no  room  for  anything 
 else  as  a  ground  cover.  Naturally,  when 
 we  brought  these  in  at  3  gallon  size, 
 they  were  this  big.  And  there  the  leaves 
 were  touching  the  ground  and  they  were 
 filling  this  whole  area.  Right  now  that 
 [music]  they've  gone  upright  and  kind  of 
 cascaded  over.  So,  it  allow  us  to  bring 
 in  these  agonas.  These  are  silver  bay 
 agonas.  These  [music]  grow  super  super 
 slow.  It  will  take  a  very  long  time  to 
 get  any  stemming  at  all.  But  once  they 
 do,  we'll  have  just  enough  room  for 
 maybe  some  foxtail  ferns  down  below. 
 We'll  have  to  see.  That  doesn't  mean  you 
 have  to  wait,  you  know,  a  couple  years 
 for  your  next  layer  in  your  planting. 
 You  can  do  this  by  changing  and 
 manipulating  the  gallon  size.  So,  you 
 can  start  in  with  one  gallon  on  these 
 guys.  You  can  start  in  with  7  to  10 
 gallon  on  these  guys.  You  can  start  in 
 with  15  to  25  gallon  on  those  sides 
 because  by  that  time  all  of  those  have 
 clearance.  So,  when  you're  shopping  in 
 the  garden  center,  you  almost  want  to 
 put  your  groupings  together  right  at  the 
 garden  center  and  kind  of  see  if  there's 
 room  to  really  stagger  these  in.  And 
 then  if  they  are,  then  that  means  you're 
 pretty  much  got  a  full  landscaping  right 
 there.  It  also  gives  you  an  idea  of 
 spacing  right  here.  It  gets  plenty  of 
 shade,  get  some  protection.  So,  we  get 
 filtered  light.  We  get  all  morning  sun 
 that  comes  in  kind  of  above  where  I'm 
 standing  right  here.  And  then  all 
 afternoon  it  gets  good  shade.  So, 
 [music]  filter  light  to  full  shade,  but 
 definitely  not  full  sun.  Having  a  little 
 touch  of  boulders  or  or  small  rocks  in 
 the  garden,  I  think  really  add  a  little 
 bit  of  an  element  change  and  make  it 
 more  interesting.  And  I  think  they  do  so 
 well  around  things  like  agave, 
 burmilads,  foxtail  ferns.  [music]  That's 
 kind  of  how  I  use  little  boulders.  Now 
 you  guys  notice  that  this  Imperialis 
 burmilad  versus  some  of  the  other 
 [music]  ones  that  you've  seen  in 
 gardens.  This  one  has  more  green,  less 
 purple,  and  that's  because  it's  in  a 
 shady  [music]  environment.  If  it  were  in 
 a  full  sun  environment,  because  they  can 
 handle  full  sun,  it  would  have  more 
 purple,  less  green.  And  all  you  have  to 
 do  with  these  guys,  they  hold  the  water 
 in  the  cups  from  above.  So,  you  want  to 
 just  kind  of  spray  them  out  every  couple 
 weeks.  So,  that  way  water  doesn't 
 collect.  If  you  let  that  sit  for  months 
 and  months  and  months,  it's  going  to  get 
 yucky.  [music]  So,  cuz  it  takes  a  while 
 for  that  water  to  drain  or  evaporate, 
 especially  in  this  kind  of  shady 
 environment.  And  as  we  move  on,  I  I  love 
 this  grouping  of  Croins  right  here 
 because,  as  you  guys  know,  when  you're 
 in  a  shade  inspired  garden,  you're  going 
 to  have  a  difficult  time  finding 
 material  that  has  enough  color  to  make 
 enough  [music]  impact  in  that  space.  So, 
 this  is  three  magnificent  groins.  These 
 were  seven  gallon  size,  so  they're  a 
 nice  size  when  we  put  them  in.  And 
 they're  just  opening  up  and  they're 
 going  to  completely  encompass  the  bottom 
 of  this  pigota  plant.  So,  this  pigota 
 plant  was  just  cut  back  for  the  season. 
 was  nice  and  tall  around  5  six  foot  tall 
 and  it  blooms  a  gorgeous  orange  flower 
 and  it's  going  to  naturally  lean  towards 
 this  way  because  it's  going  to  search 
 for  the  sun  which  is  what's  going  to 
 make  it  such  an  interesting  focal  point. 
 During  the  summer  months  all  you  see  is 
 a  blast  of  orange  kind  of  looking  from 
 the  from  the  gate.  Oh,  talk  about  your 
 secret  garden  [music]  entrances.  As 
 beautiful  as  they  are,  you  have  to 
 really  like  them  because  they  will 
 produce  pups.  They're  runners.  So, 
 you'll  have  this  plant  here  and  then 
 it'll  produce  a  pup  maybe  over  here  or 
 over  here.  So,  [music]  you'll  have  to 
 kind  of  keep  on  top  of  it.  Now,  speaking 
 of  color  and  blooms,  look  at  that  ground 
 orchid.  I  mean,  it's  got  quite  the 
 haircut  from  the  [music]  rabbit,  but 
 it's  blooming  in  spite  of  all  that.  If 
 you  guys  have  a  shady  spot  in  your 
 garden,  ground  orchids  are  ideal,  unless 
 you  have  rabbits.  I've  [music]  got 
 clusters  of  them,  and  I  love  this  long 
 shoot.  Some  of  the  shoots  are  come  out 
 to  be  this  big,  and  they're  just  [music] 
 stunning.  And  you  can  just  see  a  mass  of 
 them.  So,  we  have  this  giant,  giant 
 Borneo  Alicacia.  This  guy  is  stunning. 
 He  is  really  branching  out  to  really 
 find  his  own  and  he  is  providing  a  pup 
 in  the  background  so  we  can  find  another 
 spot  in  the  garden  for  him.  But  oh  my 
 goodness,  I  just  think  this  just  is  such 
 a  healthy,  gorgeous  look  to  this  trunk 
 base  here.  Every  star  needs  a  base.  This 
 area  back  here,  as  you  guys  can  imagine, 
 does  not  get  much  light.  So  quarter 
 lines  are  going  to  offer  you  that  bit. 
 This  is  called  diamond  quarterline.  And 
 this  [music]  right  here  is  bolero.  And 
 these  guys  do  need  the  shade,  but  what  a 
 nice  pop  of  bright  soft  color  they 
 offer.  Those  pinks  [music]  are  just 
 gorgeous.  They're  really  going  to  take 
 off.  The  diamonds,  you  always  want  the 
 diamonds  to  go  to  the  back.  They're 
 going  to  grow  faster  and  wider.  Those 
 are  a  wider  [music]  one.  The  boleros  are 
 petite.  They're  kind  of  a  big  leaf,  but 
 they  really  kind  of  stay  to  their  own. 
 They  make  the  perfect  neighbors.  [music] 
 They  can  really  fit  into  tight  spots. 
 So,  don't  be  afraid  to  use  the  boleros 
 in  little  areas.  We  make  sure  you  use 
 the  pink  diamonds  in  the  bigger,  more 
 open  areas  because  that's  what  they 
 [music]  want  to  do.  Those  guys  are  going 
 to  be  six  to  eight  foot  tall  in  no  time. 
 And  then  of  course  you  have  the  antiloos 
 in  the  back.  Now  the  antiloos  are 
 naturally  more  vertical,  more  upright. 
 You're  going  to  see  from  [music]  them  is 
 that  top  dark  leafing  giving  you  a  nice 
 blast  of  a  dark  tone  as  the  backdrop.  So 
 on  either  side  of  the  centerpiece  here, 
 we  have  two  of  the  silver  bay  aglionas. 
 I  just  think  they're  stunning.  They 
 offer  bright  spots,  big  leaves.  And  then 
 right  to  the  front  of  the  centerpiece, 
 we  have  five  of  the  maras.  And  they're 
 more  of  a  petite  agleon.  You  can  see  the 
 leaves  are  smaller.  They  grow  slower  and 
 they  kind  of  stay  more  compact  and  low 
 for  a  much  longer  period  of  time.  So 
 these  I  think  this  combination  is  really 
 going  to  always  tear  very  nicely. 
 Finished  it  off  with  a  silver  odor 
 burmilad.  Now  you'll  notice  in  the  sun 
 this  will  have  more  silver  tone  to  it. 
 in  the  shade.  It'll  have  more  green  tone 
 to  it  and  then  a  couple  diced  in 
 boulders  here  and  there.  We've  centered 
 everything  around  the  alicacious  and 
 then  we've  kind  of  curved  a  bed  so  we 
 have  a  kind  of  a  nice  halo  [music]  all 
 the  way  around  it  making  it  known  that 
 this  is  the  centerpiece.  This  is 
 definitely  my  style  of  gardening.  And  as 
 we  move  through  the  garden,  I  kind  of 
 want  to  mention  this  walkway.  A  lot  of 
 times  people  will  want  a  walkway  like 
 right  along  the  house  and  then  do  a  big 
 heavy  planting.  [music] 
 And  that's  perfectly  fine,  especially  if 
 you  don't  have  a  lot  of  room.  If  you've 
 got  less  than  9  ft,  that's  the  way  to  do 
 it.  Do  a  2  and  1/2  ft  walkway  along  the 
 side  of  the  house  and  then  do  your 
 layered  landscaping.  But  if  you've  got 
 room,  if  you  got  about  20  foot  to  work 
 with,  that  leaves  you  room  on  both  sides 
 and  maybe  doing  a  two  or  three  foot  wide 
 walkway.  It  changes  the  whole  feel  of 
 the  space.  If  this  was  just  a  garden  and 
 then  this  was  just  mulch,  it  would  look 
 lovely.  But  having  a  pathway,  having  a 
 nice  established  pathway  gives  you  that 
 secret  garden  feel.  You  want  to  set  your 
 landscaping  up.  Make  sure  you're  really 
 happy  with  your  layers,  your  spacing. 
 You  kind  of  want  all  that  in  place.  And 
 then  set  your  walkway  where  it's  going 
 to  fit  into  that  particular  space. 
 Anytime  you  have  growth  on  both  sides, 
 if  you  can  kind  of  have  it  just  canopy 
 over  top  of  you,  like  this  guy  is  doing 
 for  me  here  and  this  guy  is  doing  for  me 
 there,  that  really  gives  you  that 
 [music]  feel  of  like  being  on  vacation. 
 There's  nothing  better  than  to  look 
 above  you  and  just  see  a  crowning,  a 
 connection  of  leaves  [music]  and  fronds. 
 I  just  think  that  really  dials  in  that 
 jungle  feel  like,  you  know,  like  you  do 
 when  you're  on  vacation.  So,  I  commonly 
 get  the  question  of  what  type  of  rock  do 
 you  use  to  make  the  best  pathway?  And 
 you  guys  know  I  love  the  Tahesian  gray 
 granite,  but  [music]  you  can  use  any 
 kind  of  stone  that  has  jagged  pieces 
 that  have  multiple  different  sizes  in 
 them.  So  you  can  go  from  the  half  inch 
 to  inch  and  a  half.  That's  my  favorite 
 combination  cuz  that  half  inch  gives  you 
 all  those  little  pieces  that  fit  in 
 between  the  inch  and  an  inch  and  a  half 
 pieces.  You  kind  of  see  that  right  here. 
 It's  a  nice  solid  sturdy  base.  It's  not 
 going  anywhere.  Where  if  you  have  a 
 round  stone  that  has  similar  sizes,  they 
 roll  all  over  the  place.  I  mean,  you're 
 kind  of  just  skating  on  them.  Those  are 
 perfect  for  landscape  beds,  but  not  for 
 walkways.  And  of  course,  you  want  to 
 edge  it.  Whatever  type  of  edging  that 
 you  work  with,  you're  comfortable  with. 
 I  love  the  aluminum  alloy  edging.  When 
 you  put  this  stone  in,  you  tamp  it  down. 
 You  make  it  a  nice  solid  space.  And  you 
 want  to  make  sure  that  it  is  kind  of 
 controlled  on  both  sections.  It's  not 
 running.  It's  not  rolling.  It's  not 
 moving  into  the  next  section  of  the  bed. 
 It's  staying  where  you  put  it  long  term. 
 Weed  berry  goes  underneath.  [music] 
 Edging  goes  on  either  side.  and  then 
 you've  got  a  solid  base  for  years  and 
 years  and  years  and  years  and  that 
 [music]  rock  does  not  disappear  on  you. 
 If  you  guys  are  thinking  about  buying 
 them  anyway,  please  buy  them  from  my 
 Amazon  storefront.  They  do  help  support 
 the  channel  and  I  get  a  small  commission 
 every  time  one  of  those  are  bought.  So, 
 [music]  thank  you  so  much  in  advance. 
 But  let's  move  on  to  the  rest  of  the 
 tour.  And  the  next  trees  I  want  to  talk 
 about  are  two  trees  that  you  know  like 
 they  get  a  lot  of  hate.  If  maintenance 
 is  not  in  your  wheelhouse  and  you  do  not 
 want  to  be  out  in  the  garden  but  maybe 
 once  or  twice  a  year,  then  these  trees 
 may  not  be  for  you.  However,  these  trees 
 grow  [music]  fast.  They  give  you  a  lot 
 of  impact  pretty  much  right  away,  and 
 they  really  are  an  interesting  tropical 
 look.  That  is  the  Eureka  palm,  which 
 we've  lined  the  back  with.  So,  we've  got 
 a  nice  clustering  of  palms  to  the  back. 
 Now,  as  you  can  see,  my  client  likes 
 them  where  they're  trimmed  up  a  little 
 bit  on  the  bottom,  and  he  likes  that 
 kind  of  look,  and  that's  kind  of  how  I 
 keep  mine,  too.  And  I'm  out  in  the 
 garden  about  every  3  months  doing  a 
 little  bit  of  clipping  to  kind  of  make 
 sure  that  that  happens.  So,  that  is  part 
 of  dealing  with  a  palms.  So,  tropical. 
 give  you  a  vertical  look  with  a  little 
 bit  of  weeping  and  offer  you  such  nice 
 bit  of  coverage  from  the  side  of  the 
 house.  And  because  they're  so  vertical, 
 they  can  fit  in  a  relatively  tight  spot. 
 So,  there's  a  lot  of  benefits  to  oras. 
 Full  shade  to  filtered  light,  they  do 
 fabulous.  They're  going  to  grow  slower 
 and  they're  going  to  be  [music]  deeper 
 green.  I  think  to  me,  this  is  the 
 prettiest  version  of  a  Rico  when  they're 
 like  this.  [music]  Over  here  is  the  bird 
 of  paradise.  This  is  about  4t  of  space. 
 Not  a  lot  of  room.  These  bird  paradise 
 have  been  here  for  years.  And  look  how 
 beautifully  they've  done.  They're 
 [music]  kept  to  the  exact  size  that 
 Scott  wants  them  to  be  kept  to.  Now, 
 he's  got  a  big  screen  [music]  opening 
 there.  So,  he  definitely  wanted 
 something  right  up  against  the  screen 
 that's  going  to  offer  a  big  pop  of  those 
 big  giant  leaves.  And  birds  of  paradise 
 do  just  that.  But  if  there  is  a  new  pup 
 coming  in  like  you  see  right  here,  and 
 you  [music]  don't  want  it,  then  you  chop 
 that  guy  out.  Now,  I  use  my  hory  knife 
 and  just  get  in  there  and  chop  that  out 
 and  you're  not  going  to  affect  the  tree. 
 And  with  this  limited  amount  of  space. 
 All  I'm  looking  for  is  plant  fillers.  So 
 burl  marks  are  great  for  that.  I  hate  to 
 even  show  you  guys  these.  These  were 
 just  heavily  trimmed  back  because  they 
 were  beautiful.  They  were  mounding  over 
 just  so  beautifully  like  this.  And  twice 
 a  year  I  do  a  trim  back  on  these  burl 
 marks.  And  then  within  2  months  [music] 
 they're  flushed  out  and  they're 
 gorgeous.  Again,  burl  marks  will  fill 
 nooks  and  crannies.  So  they'll  kind  of 
 travel  in  areas  and  fill  any  open  spot 
 that  you  need  filled.  And  right  here  we 
 have  a  song  of  India  on  a  trellis.  A 
 little  bit  of  trimming  going  on  here. 
 And  then  it's  going  to  be  a  really, 
 really  nice  feature.  We  have  it  on  both 
 sides  of  the  wall  there.  And  yes,  you 
 can  get  songs  of  India  on  a  trellis  and 
 make  them  into  little  trees.  And  when 
 they  do  get  there,  they're  [music]  just 
 stunning.  We've  got  bird's  nest  ferns,  a 
 sea  of  them,  and  just  let  them  kind  of 
 come  in  and  fill  [music]  this  whole 
 bedding.  Now,  this  will  not  be  the  end 
 of  the  bird's  nest  ferns.  If  you  guys 
 know,  these  are  also  epipites.  So,  as 
 they  grow  in,  as  they  kind  of  start  to 
 widen  [music]  and  spread  out  and  get 
 nice  and  big,  they're  not  going  to  grow 
 into  this  walkway.  No,  they're  going  to 
 grow  up.  They're  going  to  grow  up  those 
 trees,  kind  of  attach  to  the  tree 
 [music]  lines  and  work  their  way  up.  So, 
 as  we  make  this  corner,  we  had  a  little 
 bit  of  room.  So,  I  clustered  [music]  in 
 a  nice  tight  grouping  of  antiloo,  kind 
 of  giving  us  a  little  barrier.  Y'all 
 know  that  I  like  when  you're  walking 
 down  a  pathway  having  some  interruption. 
 Whether  it's  fronds  like  these  or  big 
 leaves  like  the  alicacas,  something's 
 blocking  you.  You  kind  of  have  to  walk 
 around  or  you  kind  of  have  to  look  over 
 and  see  what's  going  on  behind  that.  And 
 that's  exactly  what  these  guys  are  doing 
 now.  But  in  time,  they're  going  to 
 search  for  the  sun.  So,  anytime  you 
 plant  something  that  you  want  to  kind  of 
 lean,  put  in  a  little  bit  of  the  shade 
 and  then  tilt  it  just  a  tiny  bit  and  it 
 will  find  the  sun.  So,  it's  naturally 
 going  to  come  out  and  do  this  really 
 over  time.  And  as  this  does  this  and 
 this  does  this,  well,  you  guys  get  it, 
 right?  It'll  be  charming.  As  we  get  into 
 this  area  over  here,  you  can  [music] 
 kind  of  really  see  a  shift,  right?  Trees 
 are  gone.  This  area  is  nice  and  broad 
 and  open.  If  you  notice  where  we  have  a 
 collection  of  one  type  of  plant 
 grouping,  and  [music]  then  it  curves  and 
 angles  into  a  whole  different  type  of 
 plant  grouping,  and  you're  like,  "Oo,  I 
 like  what  you  did  there.  I  like  how  you 
 change  that  up."  A  [music]  lot  of  times, 
 that's  just  done  on  purpose.  As  a 
 designer,  you  can  tell  that  this  is  a 
 beautiful  backdrop,  beautiful  view  over 
 in  the  area  that  we  were  more  condensed 
 planting.  [music]  So  this  area,  all  we 
 wanted  was  brightness.  So  that  way  from 
 the  screen  room  from  the  seating 
 section,  bright  colors  were  given.  So 
 we've  got  a  nice  grouping  of  some 
 [music]  mam  croins  mixed  in  with  some 
 song  of  India  with  a  little  touch  of 
 gold  mound  and  then  a  nice  vibrant  pop 
 of  the  false  agave  and  a  little  bit  of 
 stone  work.  Of  course,  this  guy  was 
 brought  in  when  he  was  only  10,  11t 
 tall,  and  you  can  really  see  what  a  few 
 years  has  done  for  his  his  space.  And 
 now  that  he's  gotten  some  size  to  him, 
 we  were  able  to  bring  in  some  Brazilian 
 red  cloaks.  Now,  this  is  winter.  This  is 
 not  their  season,  and  they  were  newly 
 planted.  So,  these  guys  are  going  to 
 need  some  time  to  fluff  out  and  fill 
 out.  If  you  guys  have  a  young  tree 
 that's  a  triple  like  this  or  a  double 
 trunk  like  this  and  it's  still  fairly 
 young  and  pliable,  putting  something  big 
 in  that  center  will  push  those  limbs 
 out.  Really  broad  branching  and  whatnot. 
 You  can  really  take  a  pretty  much  of  a 
 straight  tree  and  really  open  it  up  by 
 doing  that.  Okay.  Then  we  have  the  other 
 side  here  with  some  foxtail  ferns.  Nice 
 and  low,  something  easily  they  can  see 
 to  the  rest  of  [music]  the  the  backyard 
 garden.  And  then  a  very  clean  collection 
 of  oras.  [music]  Now,  this  is  a  gorgeous 
 grouping.  Not  a  very  big  space.  You  can 
 see  that  they're  kept  just  [music] 
 barely,  but  off  the  screen  room.  Nice 
 vertical  clumps.  When  you're  trying  to 
 do  a  collection,  [music]  a  solid  wall  of 
 these  guys,  you  want  to  keep  them  or 
 plant  them  in  at  5t  on  center  [music] 
 and  then  a  couple  foot  off  the  wall 
 because  they  are  going  to  clump.  They 
 are  going  to,  you  know,  work  their  way  a 
 little  bit  wider.  Of  course,  a  [music] 
 nice  gorgeous  size  after  they've  matured 
 over  the  last  few  years.  All right,  you 
 guys.  So,  thank  you  for  walking  and 
 talking  and  touring  with  us  today.  It 
 has  been  fun.  And  if  you  enjoyed  today's 
 video,  then  check  out  McKe  Gardens  video 
 that  we  did  last  week.  It's  absolutely 
 beautiful.  I  know  if  you  love  these 
 tropicals,  you're  going  to  love  that 
 tropical  garden.  So  enjoy  and  I  will  see 
 you  next  week.  Take  care.

---

 Well,  hello  true  gardeners.  Welcome, 
 welcome,  welcome.  So,  we  are  at  McKe 
 Gardens  in  Vero  Beach,  Florida.  Those  of 
 you  guys  who  had  a  chance  to  [music] 
 visit  this  beautiful  botanical  gardens 
 know  exactly  what's  in  store  for  you. 
 But  tonight  is  a  bit  of  a  treat.  Tonight 
 we're  here  to  look  at  the  lights  and  the 
 gardens  and  the  majesticness  of  this 
 jungleicious  [music] 
 place.  I  just  am  so  excited  to  share  it 
 with  you  guys.  Those  of  you  guys  who 
 can't  make  this  trip,  hopefully  this 
 will  kind  of  center  in  with  what  a 
 tropical  jungle  environment  does  when 
 you  add  Christmas  lights  and  landscape 
 lighting  to  it.  And  I  think  it's  just 
 going  to  be  pretty  awesome.  So,  it's  me, 
 my  son  Bryce,  which  you  guys  know,  um 
 his  wife  Marissa,  and  my  husband  and 
 we're  just  kind  of  doing  [music]  a 
 family  walkth  through.  But  I  thought, 
 gosh,  when  I  walked  in  here,  I'm  like, 
 pull  out  the  camera.  We're  totally 
 bringing  archer  gardeners  in  amongst 
 this  beautiful  scenery,  cuz  [music]  I 
 know  that's  right  up  your  alley.  All 
 right,  you  guys.  We  are  here  right  at 
 the  front  entrance  of  McKe  Gardens.  And 
 look  at  this  beautiful,  glorious  tree. 
 The  moon  is  right  above.  It  is 
 absolutely  [music] 
 stunning.  And  what  a  nice  welcoming  to 
 enjoy  the  gardens. 
 As  soon  as  you  walk  in,  just  how  these 
 canopy  trees  just  cascade  over  top  of 
 the  water  here.  And  you  can  see  the 
 night  blooming  liies  here,  how  gorgeous 
 that  is.  Oh  my  goodness.  It  must  be 
 [music]  stunning  during  the  day.  But 
 look  how  lovely  the  liies  are  at  night. 
 And  then  going  down  through  that  slew, 
 it  just  looks  like  old  Florida  to  me. 
 This  is  a  Chinese  fan  palm.  And  this 
 whole  clustering  right  here  to  the  back 
 is  a  Chinese  fan  palm.  What  I  think  is 
 so  awesome  about  these  particular  palms, 
 you  guys,  look  how  chunky  and  full  this 
 particular  one  is  because  it's  in  the 
 sun.  It's  super  happy.  It's  [music] 
 super  dense  and  green.  But  then,  Bryce, 
 if  you  go  over  to  the  one  right  next  to 
 us,  you'll  see  that  that  one,  look  how 
 stretched  that  one  is.  It's  almost  like 
 it  has  the  limbs  go  all  the  way.  I  mean, 
 the  each  individual  limb  goes  super  far 
 [music]  before  it  actually  blooms  out  to 
 a  frond.  And  that's  because  it's 
 searching  for  the  sun.  So,  it  almost 
 kind  of  gives  it  a  different  look.  in 
 the  shade  with  that  long  stem  and  then 
 that  flat  frond  that  it  bends  at  the 
 end.  I  think  that  kind  of  gives  it  a 
 really  tropical  look.  So,  I  don't  know. 
 I  guess  it  depends  on  what  your  style  is 
 and  what  you  like,  but  I  kind  of  like 
 the  shady  one,  the  stretch  one  [music] 
 best. 
 >> Oh  my  gosh,  that's  the  stone  bridge. 
 Now,  do  you  know  that  that  bridge  right 
 there  that  has  been  here  since  the 
 beginning  of  the  the  whole  gardens  when 
 Waldo  Ston  and  Mr.  McKe  bought  it.  It 
 was  completely  covered  by  vegetation  and 
 then  the  landscapers  were  just  hacking 
 away  with  machetes  trying  to  get  like  it 
 all  cleaned  out  and  hacked  into  the 
 stone  wall  and  then  they  found  out  that 
 it's  a  bridge. 
 >> So  I  saw  some  lit  up  flowers  over  there. 
 But  this  parrot  right  here,  can  you  not 
 see  him  in  my  garden  set  right  behind  my 
 laquala  just  kind  of  popping  out  and 
 perching?  Wouldn't  that  be  awesome?  Many 
 of  you  guys  have  seen  Chinese  fan  palms 
 this  size  right  here.  And  they  will  stay 
 that  way  for  a  long  time.  But  [music] 
 this  is  also  a  Chinese  fan  palm.  It's 
 his  older  brother.  And  you  can  really 
 see  when  they're  underneath  the  canopy 
 of  trees  how  [music]  well  they  spread. 
 Look  at  the  just  the  stretch  they  offer. 
 I  think  that  that  offers  such  a  tropical 
 grouping.  It's  just  so  beautiful.  And  if 
 you  have  the  space  for  [music]  it, 
 cluster  a  few  of  those  together.  Put 
 some  taller  ones  in  with  some  shorter 
 ones.  Or  if  you're  like  me  and  you 
 [music]  can't  wait,  put  some  kind  of 
 nice  big  chunky  ones  in  knowing  that  in 
 the  future  you're  going  to  tuck  some  new 
 little  ones  up  underneath  of  it  as  it 
 grows  into  this  space  [music]  because 
 they  make  such  a  nice  buffer.  Trying  to 
 give  it  a  natural  look,  especially  if 
 you  have  a  garden  similar  to  my  garden, 
 which  is  pretty  polished  in  some  ways 
 with  your  foxtails  and  your  triangles, 
 things  that  are  very,  you  know,  just 
 nice  and  clean  palms.  These  kind  of 
 palms  kind  of  offer  a  little  bit  of  a 
 rustic  charm,  but  I  think  they  give  you 
 that  botanical  look.  So,  and  of  [music] 
 course  it's  nice  to  mix  up  frond 
 textures.  Check  out  these  alicacas, 
 Bryce.  It's  a  little  clustering  of 
 alicacas  underneath  these  Chinese  fan 
 palms.  And  look  how  they  do  just  reflect 
 the  light.  So  gorgeous.  I  hope  that 
 comes  across  on  camera  [music] 
 cuz  I  think  it's  just  so  stunning  right 
 here  on  the  corner  of  the  bed.  You  know, 
 this  is  kind  of  like  a  finale  of  this 
 particular  bed.  And  I  love  how  that 
 shines  through.  You  guys  know  that  these 
 stay  generally  [music]  a  small  size.  And 
 look  how  they  kind  of  cascade  down.  This 
 is  perfect  to  have  at  the  edge  of  a 
 walkway  path  to  kind  of  have  it  just 
 fall  over.  They  do  a  great  job  of  kind 
 of  tucking  in  behind  here  and  then  these 
 kind  of  give  you  a  little  [music]  bit  of 
 camouflage  from  anything  underneath. 
 They're  perfect  ground  cover  for  any 
 kind  of  jungle. 
 Yeah.  So,  that's  a  plant  that  gets 
 actually  [music]  planted  in  the  water 
 and 
 >> in  the  upper  part  of  the  water,  not  down 
 in  the  deeper  part  of  the 
 >> Yeah. 
 >> And  so,  only  the  roots  kind  of  get 
 nutrients  [music]  from  that  and  the  rest 
 of  it  pops  out  of  it.  And  like  you  could 
 put  that  all  on  the  top  of  your  fish 
 tank  and  [music]  if  the  roots  were  in 
 the  water,  it  would  just  sprout  out 
 above  it. 
 >> Oh,  Bryce,  look  at  this  angle. 
 >> I  wish  I  knew  the  artist  that  made  them 
 or  whoever  made  them.  I  would  want  to 
 put  some  out  in  the  garden.  Wonder  if  we 
 asked  somebody  who  worked  here. 
 The  other  side 
 hardware. 
 >> Oh  my  goodness.  That's  for  a  giant  door. 
 >> That  that  driftwood  with  that  um  place 
 we  ate  the  other  night  had  wood  like 
 stuff  like  this  in  the  restaurant. 
 >> Did  it? 
 >> And  Lo  built  it,  too. 
 >> Yeah. 
 That  looks  like  a  tree  that  would  fit  in 
 nicely  at  the  cabin. 
 >> This  is  a  nice  kind  of  Christmas  tree 
 [music]  display  without  having  to  go  for 
 the  typical  Christmas  tree. 
 >> They  even  got  like  the  stripes  like 
 [music]  ribbon. 
 >> Oh,  they  do.  It  looks  so  lovely.  We 
 could  burmilad  it  up,  you  guys. 
 >> They  will  stick. 
 >> And  then  when  you're  done  with 
 Christmas,  voila,  you  have  an  instant 
 burmilad  garden.  They  had  alligator 
 wrestling  here.  It  was  really  Yeah.  very 
 best. 
 >> Well,  I  mean,  kind  of  looks  like  it, 
 doesn't  it?  Yes.  So,  right  here  we  have 
 it  looks  like  the  founders.  So,  [music] 
 Mr.  Waldo  and  McKe. 
 >> Oh  my  gosh.  Check  this  out,  you  guys. 
 This  is  a  seed  pod  from  a  palm  tree. 
 Probably  a  foxtail  or  royal  palm,  but 
 this  is  what  that  looks  like.  Many  of  us 
 have  picked  these  up  in  the  yards.  But 
 what  a  great  little  display,  Christmas 
 display  it  makes,  or  any  kind  of  display 
 if  you  want  to  put  in  some  florals  in 
 here.  But 
 >> it's  the  most  Florida  thing  I've  ever 
 seen.  It 
 >> is.  So,  it  is  so  Florida.  What  a  great 
 way  to  utilize  what  nature  offers  and 
 just  add  a  little  touch  of  whimsy  with 
 it.  That's  one  of  my  favorite  things 
 about  this  place  is  they've  really 
 incorporated  a  lot  of  natural  elements 
 and  helped  create  that  whimsical  feel  of 
 old  Florida.  So,  I  found  [music]  my 
 future  kitchen.  Let's  check  it  out. 
 >> Some  of  it  had  been  burnt 
 accumulated.  I  love  it. 
 >> Waldo  Ston  [music]  was  known  for  picking 
 up  really  unique  pieces  to  incorporate 
 into  his  gardens  and  really  cool 
 intricate  pieces  just  to  kind  of  give 
 you  that  very  tropical,  very  whimsical, 
 very  Mediterranean  feel.  It's  just 
 amazing  little  mix  of  it  all.  [music] 
 And  a  lot  of  this  iron  work  and  rock 
 work,  all  that  is  replicated  based  on 
 what  he  had  seen.  And  I  just  think  that 
 it  really  came  together  so  beautifully. 
 I  mean,  look  at  this  coral  stone.  It's 
 just  absolutely  stunning.  I  don't  really 
 capitalize  on  the  amount  of  like  raw 
 materials  that  I  have  now.  I'm  looking 
 at  everything  they  create  here  and  I 
 just  kind  of  toss  it  in  the  trash.  But 
 now  [music]  you're 
 >> like,  I've  been  doing  this  designing 
 thing  for  so  long.  I've  never  even  seen 
 this. 
 >> I've  been  doing  this  all  wrong. 
 [laughter] 
 So  now  we  have  we  have  some  inspiration. 
 We  can  we  can  use  the  seed  pods  and  we 
 can  use  a  lot  of  the  prawns  for  some 
 really  cool  inspiration  through  the  rest 
 of  our  garden  as  some  beautiful  garden 
 art. 
 I  think  you're  supposed 
 >> I  don't  know  if  you're  supposed  to  do 
 that  or  not,  [laughter]  but  how  cool  is 
 that? 
 >> Okay,  that's  loud. 
 >> Look  at  the  size  of  this  bell. 
 >> Ring  that  one. 
 >> I  won't  ring  it,  but  look  at  the  size  of 
 it.  Oh,  I  hope  they  can  see  that  on 
 camera,  you  guys.  So,  I've  never  been  a 
 really  big  bell  person,  but  I'm  kind  of 
 >> kind  of  feeling  inspired. 
 >> This  was  a  route  one  hunt  coming  off 
 this  branch. 
 >> If  if  it  was  all  just  left  unmaintained, 
 we  would  all  reach  down  [music]  and  like 
 cover  this. 
 >> And  these  are  like  little  like  little 
 scavengers.  So,  they'll  send  out  like 
 little  teams  of  this  just  to  see  what 
 what  gets  water,  what  can  connect  with 
 the  ground,  and  then  before  you  know  it, 
 this  will  turn  into  a  trunk. 
 >> Oh  my  gosh.  Isn't 
 >> that  cool? 
 >> That's  what  this  was  here. 
 here.  This  came  off  this  branch  and  then 
 it  came  down. 
 >> Okay. 
 >> Cuz  the  sun's  [music]  up  there. 
 >> Oh,  yeah. 
 >> So,  Yep.  So,  it's  whole  that's  how  it's 
 going  to  get  energy.  So,  it  goes  from 
 this  over  to  that  end  and  then  becomes 
 like  [music]  Okay,  everybody  focus  on 
 the  sun. 
 [music] 
 >> Thank  you  for  bringing  us. 
 >> Oh,  well,  thank  you  for  coming.  And  I 
 know  we're  working  halfway  through  it. 
 Look  at  these  fishtail  palms.  So,  those 
 of  you  guys  who  [music]  wonder  if 
 fishtail  palms  are  going  to  do  the  job 
 to  block  out  that  big  giant  twotory 
 behind  you,  check  out  [music]  this  guy. 
 I  mean,  look,  look  at  this  front. 
 Twotory.  What  twotory?  [laughter] 
 Beautiful.  This  is  where  palms  bring  the 
 magic.  This  is  Palm  Alley.  Look  at  these 
 royal  palms. 
 You  know  what  I  love  about  Botanical 
 Gardens  is  they've  created  the  walkways 
 [music]  up  on  walkways.  I  mean, 
 literally,  we  could  be  walking  all  over 
 the  grass.  We  could  be  walking 
 everywhere.  But  because  they  designated 
 a  nice  walking  path  through  all  of  these 
 gardens,  [music]  I  don't  know  what  it 
 is.  It's  like  the  yellow  brick  road,  you 
 guys.  And  you  start  on  it  and  it  makes 
 you  just  want  to  [music]  follow  through 
 the  path  and  through  the  trails.  And 
 that's  exactly  what  botanical  gardens 
 have  harnessed  so  well.  And  oh  my 
 goodness,  look  at  these 
 >> snowflakes.  Yeah, 
 [music] 
 >> Waldo  Ston  and  Mr.  McKe  had  planned  on 
 purchasing  this  place.  It  was  I  think  it 
 was  80  acres.  It  was  a  huge  area  [music] 
 and  they  planned  on  creating  a  citrus 
 grove  with  it.  I  mean,  and  then  turns 
 out  they  walked  through  this  [music] 
 place  and  there  must  have  been  some 
 magic  in  the  air.  They  must  have  really 
 got  a  chance  to  really  see  what  how 
 wonderful  old  [music]  Florida  natural 
 gardens  look  like  because  that's  exactly 
 what  sold  them  into  taking  it  from  a  big 
 profit  sharing  [music]  business  into 
 keeping  it  natural.  So  for  as  long  as 
 they  possibly  could,  [music]  they  kept 
 this  to  a  beautiful  botanical  gardens 
 that  they  shared  with,  you  know, 
 everybody  in  Florida.  And  those  of  you 
 guys  who  are  looking  for  um  what  works 
 really  well  in  your  area,  what  plants 
 and  trees  kind  [music]  of  really  survive 
 through  hurricanes  and  tough  times  and 
 whatever  else  that  you  have  within  your 
 community,  check  out  your  local 
 botanical  garden  because  you'll  find  out 
 that  if  it's  living  there,  then  it's 
 going  to  be  living  well  in  your  back  or 
 front  yards.  All right,  [music]  next 
 year  we  are  not  putting  up  a  Christmas 
 tree. 
 >> Oh  my  gosh,  they're  beautiful.  They're 
 it's  a  beautiful  display.  My  hubby  is 
 holding  the  camera  so  that  [music]  way 
 we  can  share  our  Christmas  smiles  with 
 you  guys.  Merry  Christmas,  y'all. 
 >> Merry  Christmas. 
 >> Merry  Christmas. 
 >> Oh  my  gosh.  If  you  guys  have  got  a  big 
 piece  of  driftwood  or  a  part  of  a  tree 
 that  has  just  come  down  and  it's  got  an 
 interesting  shape.  I  think  this  is  a 
 pretty  good  use  for  it.  Look  at  how  cool 
 this  is  as  a  display  with  like  just 
 different  alocacas.  [music]  The  great 
 part  about  going  to  botanical  gardens, 
 like  I  said  earlier,  is  that  you  know 
 what's  going  to  live  here  because  this 
 material  for  the  most  part,  this  isn't 
 covered.  It's  not  protected.  Rarely  ever 
 probably  treated  for  pesticides.  So  if 
 you're  looking  for  a  plant  pallet  that's 
 tropical,  hit  your  botanical  gardens  cuz 
 there's  some  good  secrets  in  there. 
 [music]  But  I  heard  that  Mr.  Walt  Disney 
 himself  came  here  earlier  before  he 
 created  Disney  [music]  World  and 
 Adventure  Land  was  created  off  of  these 
 little  sloohs  and  these  walkway  paths 
 through  the  garden  which  I  think  is 
 [music]  just  I  think  that's  so  cool.  So 
 if  it's  not  true  don't  hate  me  but  if  it 
 is  true  I  thought  that  would  be  cool  to 
 share  [music] 
 >> or  you  just  add  it  to  the  rumors 
 [laughter] 
 >> or  we  just  added  it  to  the  rumors. 
 Right. 
 >> That  is  so 
 >> Oh  that  is  neat.  Oh  they  have  a  little 
 kitty  one.  [music] 
 >> Did  you  turn  it? 
 >> You  turn  it.  Yeah, 
 >> go.  That's  a  that  Usually  could  buy 
 kaleidoscopes  for  kids  when  they  were 
 little.  I  had  a  kaleidoscope. 
 >> That's  kind  of  cool  how  this  is  all 
 focused  on  this  one  little  area  though. 
 Ain't  it  neat?  But  look  at  this  leaf. 
 Like  if  you  guys  were  in  the  rain. 
 Yeah,  totally.  Like  Oh,  [music]  who 
 needs  an  umbrella?  Come,  Marissa.  Both 
 of  us  can  get  in  here. 
 >> You  could  cut  it  off  like  right  down 
 here.  [laughter] 
 >> There  you  go. 
 >> That  would  be  cool. 
 This  would  be  a  natural  umbrella.  Bryce, 
 look  at  the  giant  mushroom. 
 >> Look  at  the  owl.  His  head  moves. 
 >> How  cool  is  that?  I  think  they  This  was 
 a  [music]  It  was  replicated  because  they 
 had  one  in  like  the  '60s  that  got  moved 
 somewhere  else.  I  [music]  think  it  I 
 think  it  ended  up  in  like  Vista  Royale 
 apartments.  I  nickname  call  it  a 
 traveler's  palm,  even  though  it's  not 
 really  a  palm.  is  because  travelers, 
 [music] 
 they  came  across  those  while  they  were 
 walking  through  a  dry  area.  Then  they 
 knew  that  they  can  cut  those  [music] 
 open  and  get  water  and  it  would  give  the 
 travelers  just  an  extra  day  or  two  of 
 life,  you  know,  to  kind  of  get  to  the 
 next  area  they  had  [music]  to  get  to 
 because  they  can  go  from  water  source  to 
 water  source.  And  so  they  were  called 
 travelers  palms  for  Wow,  this  is  a  big 
 clustering  of  bamboo,  isn't  it?  Jeez. 
 Oh,  I  wanted  to  stop  here.  Look  how  cool 
 this  is.  [music]  Speaking  of  making 
 things  with  bamboo,  right? 
 >> I've  never  seen  that. 
 >> That's  how  I  imagined  I  built  my  forts 
 back  in  the  day.  [laughter] 
 >> It  feels  [music]  like  we're  in  the 
 stars. 
 >> There's  a  trumpet  tree. 
 >> Yeah. 
 >> Uhhuh. 
 >> What  I  learned  when  I  was  down  in  um 
 >> Columbia.  Anybody? 
 >> Well,  yeah.  Interesting. 
 >> Look  how  pretty  that  is.  It's  like 
 [music]  your  tree. 
 >> It  is. 
 >> Oh,  they  put  it  on  a  big  [music]  tree. 
 [music] 
 >> All  righty,  you  guys.  [music]  So,  I  know 
 today's  video  was  a  little  unstructured 
 and  it  was  just  on  the  cuff,  but  I 
 wanted  to  bring  you  guys  along  because 
 [music]  when  I  knew  we  were  coming  here, 
 I'm  like,  let's  just  share  a  little 
 tidbit  of  this  beautiful  garden.  [music] 
 We  are  definitely  coming  back  here.  I 
 think  we're  going  to  come  back  here 
 tomorrow.  So,  you  guys  keep  a  lookout 
 for  the  updated  garden  tour  [music] 
 during  the  day  so  we  can  share  actual 
 plant  and  tree  knowledge  and  some 
 information  about  some  of  these 
 beautiful,  beautiful  trees.  So, 
 hopefully  that'll  be  on  next  week's 
 video  or  the  following  week's  video,  but 
 we  should  have  that  out  to  you  fairly 
 [music]  soon  because  this  is  definitely 
 worth  a  trip  back.  But  I  hope  you  got  a 
 little  holiday  spirit,  a  little  holiday 
 joy  out  of  seeing  this  garden  and  its 
 glory  in  all  these  beautiful,  beautiful 
 lights.  [music]  So,  thank  you  so  much 
 for  joining  me  and  my  family.  Merry 
 Christmas  and  I  will  see  you  next 
 Saturday  at  the  garden

---

 Well,  hello  [music]  true  gardeners. 
 Today  we  are  in  Vero  Beach,  Florida,  and 
 we  are  going  to  look  at  [music]  a 
 beautiful  front  yard  garden  that  we  did 
 about  a  month  ago.  But  I  really  want  to 
 share  [music]  with  you  guys  this 
 particular  space  because  I  think  the 
 combination  of  plants  is  fantastic.  So, 
 if  you  guys  are  along  the  treasure  or 
 the  space  [music]  coast  and  you're 
 looking  for  some  plant  ideas  that  are 
 going  to  really  work  harmoniously 
 together,  pull  out  your  pad  because  I 
 think  these  are  just  doing  super  super 
 well  [music]  in  the  space  and  it  might 
 be  something  that  you  can  just  exactly 
 replicate.  This  front  yard  is  not  very 
 big  as  you  can  see,  but  you  can  tell 
 there  are  three  distinct  sections.  We've 
 got  full  sun  in  one  area,  part  sun  in 
 another  area,  and  nearly  full  [music] 
 shade  in  the  third  section.  I  thought 
 this  would  kind  of  pertain  to  a  lot  of 
 you  guys.  You  DIYers  out  there  that  are 
 looking  to  kind  of  create  your  perfect 
 little  front  yard  garden.  Please 
 subscribe  and  let's  jump  into  this 
 video.  Come  on.  I  think  we're  going  to 
 start  over  here.  Actually,  I  want  to 
 start  with  the  area  that  everybody  sees 
 from  the  road  first.  Now,  [music]  this 
 was  a  troubled  area.  It  was  kind  of  a 
 really  troubled  spot.  When  you  have  this 
 much  leaf  coverage  and  leaf  foliage, 
 there's  a  lot  of  acidity  in  the  ground 
 and  a  lot  of  mess.  So,  it's  very  hard  to 
 keep  a  garden  looking  pristine.  So  if 
 that's  the  case,  you  kind  of  got  to  work 
 with  it,  you  know,  work  with  mother 
 nature  when  it  happens  like  that.  And 
 that's  what  we  did  in  this  particular 
 space.  So  as  the  backdrop  for  our  height 
 for  our  impact,  we  have  two  triple  pygmy 
 eight  palms.  These  guys  are  full  grown 
 now.  So  this  is  what  they  look  like  when 
 they're  full  grown.  If  they  were  being 
 used  in  a  buffer  area,  they  would  be 
 fuller,  thicker.  But  because  I  want  to 
 see  the  house,  I  just  kind  of  needed  a 
 little  bit  of  softness  with  some  height 
 here.  And  these  are  perfect.  [music] 
 They're  doing  just  that.  They're  kind  of 
 giving  just  a  little  bit  of  a  whimsy 
 feel  on  either  side  of  the  front  without 
 hiding  the  front.  And  of  course,  we've 
 got  these  big  mama  jama  oak  trees  up 
 here.  So,  we  could  not  put  anything  too 
 tall.  Kind  of  using  this  as  our  anchor 
 pieces  because  of  that  reason.  If  I 
 didn't  have  the  complexity  of  this 
 [music]  particular  space  of  shade  and 
 the  oak  tree  canopy,  I  might  put 
 something  more  vertical  here,  like,  you 
 know,  maybe  two  double  foxtail  [music] 
 palms  or  two  single  foxtail  palms, 
 something  with  a  little  bit  more  ump 
 like  you  guys  see  in  a  lot  [music]  of  my 
 videos.  These  are  really  giving  a  nice 
 bit  of  punctuation  on  either  side 
 without  kind  of,  you  know,  getting  into 
 the  canopy  of  the  trees.  We've  got  a  lot 
 of  leaf  foliage  here.  So,  [music]  the 
 best  thing  to  do  when  you  have  that  is 
 find  some  things  that  are  going  to  cover 
 that  ground.  So,  [music]  these  big 
 alocacas,  these  are  the  dwarf  alicacas, 
 believe  it  or  not.  They're  going  to  do 
 that.  They're  going  to  paddle  all  the 
 way  around.  This  everything's  been 
 recently  trimmed,  but  prior  to  trimming, 
 they  kind  of  engulfed  the  base  of  this 
 tree  all  the  way  around  it.  And  of 
 course,  three  times  a  year,  you  want  to 
 trim  those  back  so  that  you  get  nice 
 fullness  of  those  allocations  at  the 
 bottom.  But  right  now,  they're  kind  of 
 open  and  clean.  Over  time,  over  the  next 
 3  months,  they're  going  to  engulf  that 
 tree  base  again  and  really  kind  of  give 
 you  some  camouflage  to  that  bottom.  So, 
 if  you  guys  have  a  lot  of  leaves,  those 
 big  giant  paddle  leaves  of  alicacas  will 
 give  you  almost  like  a  blanket  along 
 that  base.  And  then  another  option  would 
 be  something  like  aimas.  They  have  that 
 big  giant  leaf.  the  leaf  falls  down 
 below  it  because  the  leaf  just  flutters 
 down  and  then  those  big  giant  [music] 
 leaves  cover  it.  You  can  also  use 
 something  as  simple  as  variegated 
 arbakas.  The  leaves  aren't  so  big  but 
 they're  so  dense  that  the  leaves  go 
 underneath  of  them  and  it  gives  [music] 
 you  again  a  blanket  along  the  ground. 
 And  so  those  will  fall  in  line  with  that 
 same  type  of  planting  where  we  have 
 filtered  [music]  light  more  of  a  shady 
 area  here.  Our  next  standard  focal 
 points  are  going  to  be  these  silver 
 odoras.  They  are  so  cool  when  I  have  a 
 bit  of  darkness  in  the  garden.  I  hope 
 this  comes  across  on  camera.  I  know  it 
 doesn't  always,  but  silver  odoras  are 
 such  a  bright  spot  in  a  garden.  And  I 
 just  love  that  when  you  need  something 
 to  kind  of  really  bounce  some  light  off 
 of.  You  can  use  something  in  the  white 
 families  or  something  in  the  silver 
 family  or  yellows.  But  it's  hard  to  find 
 yellow  in  shade.  We  have  a  little  bit  of 
 yellow  in  these  ice  tone  croins.  We've 
 got  some  yellow  and  lime  green.  You  can 
 kind  of  see  the  color  palette  of  these 
 ice  tone  croins.  Now,  there's  very 
 little  sun  here,  you  guys.  And  look  at 
 how  much  beautiful  growth  they're  giving 
 off  of.  Not  just  in  the  shade,  but  it's 
 also  winter.  So,  I  mean,  they're  really, 
 you  know,  we're  in  December  and  they're 
 really  just  flushing  out  beautiful  with 
 some  beautiful  color  still.  And  then  as 
 it  gets  colder  and  colder,  you'll  notice 
 the  color  will  go  darker  and  darker  and 
 then  till  spring  and  then  everything 
 flushes  out  for  the  rest  of  the  year 
 with  [music]  all  beautiful  kind  of 
 variegations  of  color.  So,  they  have 
 their  seasons  for  sure,  but  they  really 
 those  seasons  [music]  last  super  super 
 long.  We  might  get  a  month  or  two  where 
 they  go  a  little  bit  dark,  but  after 
 that  [music]  they're  golden.  And  in  your 
 planning  of  this  kind  of  landscape 
 design,  you  can  see  that  these  plants 
 really  branch  out.  So  if  you're  going  to 
 use  things  like  [music]  dwarf  alicacas 
 or  bigger  leafed  croins,  you're  going  to 
 want  to  give  yourself  a  little  bit  of 
 distance.  So  our  croin  our  alicacas  are 
 about  2  and  1 half  to  three  foot  off  of 
 the  house  line.  And  the  croins  because 
 these  are  dwarfed  croins  are  two  foot 
 off  the  house  line.  That  gives  it  a 
 little  bit  of  room  to  grow  in  a  little 
 bit  of  room  to  squeeze  by.  If  you  have 
 more  depth  in  your  garden,  you  could 
 totally  totally  get  away  with  putting 
 everything  three  foot  off  of  the  house 
 line.  And  it  [music]  gives  you  plenty  of 
 room  for  growin  room  and  walkway  space 
 to  kind  of  get  to  the  windows  if  you 
 need  to  shutter  them  or,  you  know, 
 pressure  wash  or  whatever  the  case  may 
 be.  It  also  really  helps  with 
 maintenance  to  be  able  to  maintain  to 
 the  back  of  the  bed  and  then  maintain  to 
 the  front  of  the  bed  is  so  ideal.  It's 
 just  such  a  nice  nice  little  treat. 
 [music]  To  the  front,  we  just  dialed  in 
 some  little  small  handheld  boulders.  So, 
 these  are  some  small  guys  just  to  kind 
 of  give  a  little  bit  of  interest  along 
 this  area.  And  then  [music]  some  small 
 burmilads.  These  are  just  the  neo 
 burmilads.  They  kind  of  take  that  filter 
 light  very  very  well.  And  it's  just  to 
 kind  of  give  an  underplanting  of 
 interest  here.  [music] 
 And  then  outlined  the  borders  with 
 laopy. 
 We  have  a  little  touch  of  foxtail  ferns 
 right  here  in  this  particular  spot.  And 
 they  just  look  so  lovely.  And  anytime 
 you  have  it  in  one  loop,  if  you  can  kind 
 of  create  it  and  put  it  into  [music]  a 
 secondary  loop,  that  really  does  a  nice 
 job  of  giving  you  balance  with  that  kind 
 of  texture.  And  that's  what  we  have 
 here.  We  have  a  little  clustering  of 
 foxtail  ferns  right  here.  It's  just 
 three,  but  it's  just  enough  to  kind  of 
 make  sure  that  we  understood  that 
 [music]  there's  some  pretty  good  balance 
 in  this  front.  So,  I  think  it  turned  out 
 quite  nice.  And  you  guys  might  have  a 
 similar  problem  as  this  particular  bed 
 here  where  majority  of  it  is  in  the 
 shade  and  then  you  just  kind  of  go  over 
 a  little  bit  and  then  boom,  you're  in 
 full  sun  and  you're  like,  "Okay."  So, 
 you've  got  to  make  sure  that  you  work 
 with  that.  Change  up  the  plant  material 
 to  fit  the  space.  Really  get  a  good  eye 
 on  how  much  sun  you  get  during  the  day, 
 how  much  sun  it  gets  filtered  light,  how 
 much  sun  if  you  if  you  have  a  a  total 
 shade  time  period.  You  really  kind  of 
 really  want  to  have  a  good  idea  of  that. 
 So  everything  that  you  see  behind  me  can 
 handle  full  shade  to  filtered  light.  And 
 of  [music]  course  these  palm  trees  can 
 do  both.  They  can  handle  full  sun  and 
 full  shade,  which  is  ideal.  But  then  we 
 come  around  this  corner  and  we  get  full 
 sun.  If  you  guys  like  this  kind  of 
 content,  then  please  like  and  subscribe. 
 A  lot  of  you  guys  that  watch  my  videos 
 [music]  week  after  week  are  not 
 subscribers.  And  it's  free.  I  don't  know 
 if  you  knew  that,  [music]  but  it's  free. 
 So,  um,  subscribe  because  that  helps 
 push  my  videos  out  into  the  algorithm, 
 which  is  a  big  giant  thank  you  to  Bryce 
 and  I  that  you  guys  are  liking  these 
 videos.  So,  right  here,  like  literally 
 where  I  was  standing  was  complete 
 darkness.  This  is  complete  sun  and  you 
 get  the  bounceback  heat  from  the 
 driveway  and  the  house.  So,  it's  really, 
 really  hot  sun.  So,  I  know  sometimes  it 
 can  be  hard  to  figure  out  which  [music] 
 um  how  to  pair  that,  how  to  pair  your 
 material  and  then  still  have  the  same 
 kind  of  theme  going  all  the  way  through. 
 So  you  can  see  where  the  laopi  stops 
 right  on  that  corner.  Then  we  started  in 
 with  something  that's  blooming  because 
 why  not  capitalize  on  that  sun.  So  we've 
 got  a  little  hot  spot  of  a  staggered 
 grouping  of  blew  my  minds.  And  look, 
 they're  open.  They're  beautiful.  They're 
 so  happy.  I  just  love  this  little 
 clustering.  It's  just  a  very  nice  thank 
 you  that  there's  some  sun  [music]  here. 
 And  then  right  behind  those,  we  have  the 
 dwarf  Helen  Johnson  buganveillia.  These 
 are  going  to  make  a  beautiful  clustering 
 of  pink  flowers.  Very,  very  easy  to  keep 
 low.  You'll  see  them  blooming  in  other 
 sections  of  the  garden,  but  I  can  see 
 that  the  leaf  change  is  kind  of  coming 
 on  those.  So,  they're  getting  ready  to 
 turn.  We're  [music]  getting  ready  to  get 
 some  color.  Now,  I  know  buganilia  gets  a 
 bad  wrap,  you  guys.  But  these  are  the 
 baby  bugania,  the  dwarf  buganilla.  These 
 are  the  ones  that  are  easily  kept  this 
 [music]  size  forever.  So,  if  you're 
 looking  for  that  buganilla  pop  of  color 
 and  you  want  it  more  of  in  a  clustered 
 grouping,  [music] 
 make  sure  to  pick  up  the  Helen  Johnson 
 variety.  They  do  so  well  paired  with 
 something  like  blue  my  minds  or  laria  uh 
 foxtail  ferns.  Those  are  all  in  the 
 drought  tolerant  [music]  family  and 
 agave.  All  of  this  material  right  here, 
 this  combination,  if  it's  a  [music]  look 
 that  you  like,  it  pairs  so  so  well 
 together.  Then  you've  got  the 
 variegation  of  these  crazy  kind  of  wild 
 looking  song  of  India  and  then  you've 
 got  the  false  agave  as  the  centerpiece. 
 So  you  got  a  little  wild  and  crazy  here, 
 a  little  bit  more  streamline  there.  and 
 it  drops  down  to  a  ground  cover  of  color 
 there.  And  I  think  just  the  combination 
 of  how  these  colors  play  off  of  each 
 other  do  so  so  well.  And  if  you  like 
 this  grouping,  this  is  a  long 
 sustainable  grouping.  This  is  a  grouping 
 that  really  really  does  well.  Just  make 
 sure  you  layer  them  accordingly  because 
 those,  you  know,  only  get  two  foot. 
 These  are  ideal  for  around  three  foot. 
 These  are  perfect  for  3  to  four  feet.  So 
 you  can  see  the  pattern  drop  down  to  the 
 la  which  are  one  feet.  So,  it's  really  a 
 nice  stairst  step  [music]  effect  with 
 centerpiece  of  this  guy,  Fals  agave, 
 coming  out  of  the  middle  of  it.  So, 
 we're  going  to  hop  over  to  the  next  most 
 seen  section.  So,  [music]  this  is  also 
 right  mainly  seen  from  the  road.  And  I 
 feel  like  it  really  is  just  a  [music] 
 nice  little  grouping.  Originally,  there 
 was  a  hedge  here.  It  was  pretty  closed 
 off,  but  I  think  this  [music]  made  a 
 nice  island  planting.  It  gets  good  sun 
 exposure.  We're  kind  of  in  [music]  the 
 shade  section  of  it  now,  but  it  gets 
 great  morning  sun  and  then  it  gets 
 filtered  [music]  light  the  rest  of  the 
 day  and  it's  doing  so,  so  well.  So, 
 those  of  you  guys  who  are  concerned 
 about  bugan  villas  not  blooming  in  a 
 filtered  light  environment,  [music] 
 these  are  doing  fantastic,  growing  well, 
 nice  and  dense,  and  this  gets  all 
 morning  sun  to  about  1:00  and  then  after 
 that  it  starts  getting  into  that 
 filtered  light.  So,  definitely  not  full 
 shade,  but  it  does  have  filtered  light 
 throughout  the  day.  I  don't  know if  I 
 mentioned  this  earlier,  but  this  is  a 
 design  that  we  created  and  installed. 
 And  we  do  that  here  in  Vero  Beach, 
 Florida  along  the  Vero  and  the  Space 
 Coast  area.  We  do  a  landscape  design  and 
 installation.  So,  we  kind  of  see  you 
 from  the  very  beginning  of  the  design 
 process  all  the  way  to  getting  the 
 shovels  in  the  ground  and  getting  things 
 completed.  So,  I  love  to  work  with 
 different  styles,  but  this  is  my 
 favorite  style  to  work  with,  that 
 tropical  blend.  So,  if  that's  uh  if 
 that's  a  look  that  you  like  and  you're 
 looking  for  either  a  landscape  designer 
 or  a  landscape  contractor,  then  please 
 feel  free  to  reach  out  to  us.  Those  of 
 [music]  you  guys  who  are  diying  it,  I 
 hope  I  put  enough  information  in  to 
 where  you  can  recreate  these  styles. 
 Landscaping  is  tricky,  especially 
 [music]  in  our  area.  So,  these  are 
 processes  and  these  are  groupings  that 
 work  well  together.  So,  if  you  like 
 them,  work  with  them.  I  promise  you'll 
 be  happy  with  them.  Okay,  so  right  here 
 we  have  a  very  young  fall  agave  and  then 
 we've  got  some  bugan  villas  and  then 
 draped  right  along  the  front  and  kind  of 
 like  a  nice  little  surfed  curve.  Keep  in 
 mind  you  guys,  every  time  you  have  a 
 accent  feature,  make  sure  to  just  dial 
 it  in  with  a  ground  cover  or  something 
 to  curve  around  the  base  of  [music]  it 
 just  to  kind  of  give  it  like  a  little 
 bit  of  a  support  system.  So,  normally  if 
 this  tree  wasn't  here,  this  bugan  villia 
 would  curve  to  the  back  around  the  rear 
 side  of  this,  kind  of  curving  this  way 
 with  some  height.  And  this  ground  cover 
 would  curve  the  opposite  way  and  really 
 kind  of  frame  the  accent  feature.  So,  if 
 you  guys  don't  have  something  like  a 
 palm  tree  in  the  way  of  that,  that  is  a 
 great  way  to  frame  a  feel  and  give  you 
 that  layered  feel  without  much  work  at 
 all.  Blew  my  minds  are  so  easy  to  work 
 with.  You  can  also  use  something  like 
 Mexican  heather.  Those  work  well  as  a 
 ground  cover.  Of  course,  laria  like  we 
 have  over  there  work  well  as  a  ground 
 cover.  But  what  you  want  to  make  sure  to 
 do  is  don't  put  [music]  anything  that's 
 going  to  compete  with  the  size  of  this 
 plant.  Keeping  these  guys  around  3  to 
 four  foot  is  going  to  be  nice  in  this 
 particular  [music]  space  because  that's 
 going  to  give  us  our  layers  that  we  need 
 in  this  little  island.  We  have  a 
 centerpiece  tree  of  an  existing  pygmy 
 ape  palm  that  was  here  that  we  worked 
 with.  And  then  of  [music]  course  then  we 
 kind  of  a  rinse  and  repeat.  We  have  a 
 nice  grouping  of  bugan  villia  with  a 
 little  dollop  of  foxtail  ferns  that 
 again  curve  come  straight  and  then  curve 
 their  way  up.  Anytime  you  guys  can  do 
 that  you  can  have  one  curving  this  way, 
 one  curving  that  way.  It  makes  for 
 [music]  an  interesting  plant,  especially 
 as  things  mature.  This  is  a  young 
 landscaping,  but  it's  really  on  its  way. 
 So,  I  think  it's  going  to  come  together 
 very  nicely  over  a  short  period  of  time. 
 And  one  of  the  things  that  I  don't 
 really  talk  about  very  often,  but  I  do 
 think  it  adds  a  little  ambiance  to  a 
 garden  is  landscape  lighting.  So,  those 
 of  you  guys  who  are  doing  it  yourself, 
 [music]  it  is  definitely  a  doable 
 project.  You  know,  make  sure  that  you  do 
 a  layered  lighting  effect.  So,  this 
 particular  house  we  didn't  do  the 
 lighting  on,  but  it  just  it  prompted  my 
 mind  when  I  saw  the  the  spotlights  out 
 here.  If  you  got  something  like  the  size 
 of  what  a  pygmy  date  palm  is,  you  know, 
 it's  going  to  be  around  five  or  six  foot 
 when  you  plant  it,  but  it's  going  to 
 turn  into  around  something  around  10  10 
 to  11  foot,  you  want  something  along  the 
 lines  of  a  four  to  five  watt.  That 
 wattage  is  ideal.  You  don't  want  to  go 
 any  stronger  than  that  because  that'll 
 just  blast  out  the  tree  and  all  you're 
 really  trying  to  create  is  a  shadow 
 [music]  effect.  However,  if  you  got 
 something  like  a  foxtail  palm  or  royal 
 palm  or  something  that's  really  going  to 
 get  some  really  good  size,  then  you 
 [music]  want  to  go  with  nothing  lower 
 than  a  seven  watt  bulb.  that  is 
 fantastic  to  really  work  with  and  light 
 up  that  trunk  line  and  get  all  the  way 
 up  into  that  canopy  of  that  tree.  Even 
 if  your  foxtail  palm  is  only  10  foot 
 tall,  maybe  it's  only  a  30-  gallallon 
 that  you  put  [music]  in.  Plan  for  it  to 
 be  a  big  boy  and  put  a  seven  watt  bulb 
 in  there  and  shine  it  right  up  into  that 
 tree.  And  [music]  that's  going to  be  an 
 ideal  way  to  make  make  sure  when  you're 
 looking  at  things  to  have  a  layered 
 light.  That  goes  the  same  for  things 
 like  these  fals  agave.  I  love  putting 
 lights  on  the  falsabes  because  again 
 they  give  you  that  fantastic  shadow 
 [music]  effect.  However,  I  don't  usually 
 use  a  spotlight  for  those.  You  want  to 
 get  kind  of  the  wide  lens  light  for 
 that.  They  call  them  wall  lights,  and 
 you  normally  you'll  see  them  on  walls  of 
 houses,  but  they  have  a  diffuser  in  them 
 that  kind  of  softens.  It'll  kind  of  give 
 just  a  diffused  look  to  that  whole 
 agave.  So,  you  get  a  really  beautiful 
 shadow  effect,  and  you  want  something 
 like  a  two  W  bulb  on  that.  Let's  jump 
 into  the  to  the  last  bed  in  this  front 
 yard.  So,  we  are  in  the  front  [music] 
 bed  section.  This  is  right  by  coming  up 
 to  the  front  door  area.  And  this  also 
 framed  by  the  big  driveway  that's  here. 
 So,  we  chose  to  go  with  stone  here 
 because  there  was  constant  runoff  of 
 mulch  going  into  this  driveway  [music] 
 that  pitches  down  towards  the  road.  So, 
 the  rock  really  did  a  fantastic  job  of 
 [music]  solving  that  problem.  Before  you 
 could  see  the  mulch  tidbits  all  the  way 
 down  the  driveway.  So,  this  is  working 
 out  perfectly,  which  is  great.  So,  we 
 have  1  to  3  [music]  in  rainbow  river 
 rock  here,  which  is  a  round  rock.  It's 
 rock  that  I  like  to  use  in  the  landscape 
 beds.  Definitely  not  one  that  I  would 
 want  to  walk  on  or  have  traffic  on,  but 
 it's  perfect  for  landscaping  beds.  So, 
 it's  a  nice  decorative  light  colored 
 stone.  I  [music]  think  it  does  a  nice 
 job  of  highlighting  the  ground.  And  then 
 the  next  big  item  in  this  guy  is  [music] 
 a  Montgomery  triple.  Look  how  gorgeous 
 this  big  boy  is.  Just  kind  of  framing 
 the  left  side  of  this  house.  You  can 
 kind  of  see  where  this  is  where  the 
 house  dips  down  and  then  the  roof  line 
 is  nice  and  peaked  on  the  opposite  side. 
 So,  we  did  need  something  big,  something 
 pretty  dramatic  to  really  kind  of  help 
 balance  out  this  side  of  the  house.  And 
 I  think  that  this  Montgomery  palm  is 
 doing  a  lovely  job  of  that.  Just  to 
 soften  the  two  sides  and  to  give  the 
 Montgomery  palm  a  little  bit  of  backing 
 on  this  blank  wall,  we  have  two  rafus 
 palms  or  lady  palms,  whatever  you  like 
 to  call  them.  They  are  being  kept  as 
 like  a  bunched  planting.  Now,  these  guys 
 can  spread.  They  can  get  big  and  long 
 and  run  if  you  let  them.  But  if  you  stay 
 on  top  of  it,  they're  very  easy  to  keep 
 clipped  and  [music]  keep  bunched  the  way 
 you  want.  So,  they're  one  of  those  trees 
 that  you  do  have  to  maintain.  And  it's 
 not  super  crazy  maintenance.  I  mean, 
 every  3  months,  if  you  came  out  [music] 
 and  just  did  some  clipping  on  them, 
 you're  done.  That's  what  it  takes.  If 
 that's  not  you,  and  you  really  kind  of 
 want  the  look  without  the  worry,  [music] 
 then  find  a  nice  big  lowbelly  pot, 
 something  that's  kind  of  short  and 
 stacked,  but  big  and  round.  They  grow 
 really  well  in  a  shallow  pot,  but  they 
 do  need  some  width,  some  size  to  it  to 
 really  keep  that  big  umbrella  look  to 
 them.  Put  [music]  that  in  a  pot  right 
 there.  Put  a  little  pot  mister  in  there 
 and  you're  golden  because  it's  going  to 
 be  so  nice  [music]  to  kind  of  give  you 
 some  chunkiness  to  that  side.  And  then 
 of  course  in  the  pot,  they're  not  going 
 to  outrow  that  space  because  they'll  be 
 contained.  So  you  want  to  know 
 generally,  is  this  an  area  that  you  want 
 to  block  some  view  line  from?  Do  you 
 want  something  bigger  like  a  pygmy  palm? 
 something  with  more  foliage  here  to  kind 
 of  give  you  some  privacy  in  these 
 windows  or  do  you  want  to  have  free 
 ownership  of  this  outdoor  space  and  have 
 all  the  light  that  pops  in  through  there 
 and  keep  something  more  dramatic, 
 something  that's  going  to  stay  rather 
 small  in  this  area.  Those  are  questions 
 to  really  know  before  you  meet  with  your 
 contractor  or  when  you're  planning  out 
 your  own  landscaping.  So,  in  this 
 particular  case,  these  windows  were 
 lovely.  This  wasn't  a  huge  space, 
 [music]  so  I  definitely  wanted  to  keep 
 it  open.  I  put  the  chunkier  material  on 
 the  sides  along  the  wall.  Letting  them 
 get  a  [music]  couple  foot  taller  is 
 going  to  be  perfect.  And  then  having 
 this  guy  in  here  was  going  to  give  you 
 some  substance  which  fals  agave  do  so  so 
 [music]  well.  It's  going  to  get  around 
 that  4  and  1/2,  5t  tall,  but  it's  going 
 to  be  a  4  and  1/2  ft  tall  like  this. 
 We're  going  to  see  [music]  right  through 
 it.  So  give  you  impact  without  the 
 coverage  and  take  away  absolutely  no 
 light  from  those  [music]  windows.  Right 
 to  the  back.  We  wanted  to  keep  this 
 super  super  clean,  super  simple.  So,  we 
 have  dwarf  kousias  right  to  the  back  and 
 they  do  a  nice  job  of  really  giving  you 
 a  clean  kind  of  rounded  shaped  [music] 
 little  plant.  I  know  most  of  you  guys, 
 everybody  loves  the  regular  kousias, 
 those  big  giant  succulent  looking 
 leaves.  These  are  the  same  leaves. 
 They're  just  itty  bitty  little  tiny 
 guys.  And  they're  super  easy  to  keep.  So 
 nice  and  rounded.  I  love  love love  the 
 texture  to  them.  And  I  love  the  shine. 
 Another  plant  that  kind  of  gives  you  a 
 similar  look  is  a  green  island  ficcus. 
 It  grows  a  little  bit  more  aggressive. 
 So,  and  it  grows  a  little  faster,  but  it 
 is  quite  a  nice  dense  plant.  So,  this 
 one's  a  little  easier  to  work  with,  but 
 doesn't  grow  quite  as  dense  as  the  Green 
 Island  fus.  So,  those  are  two  really, 
 really  good  alternatives.  Another  thing 
 if  you  wanted  to  use  in  this  back 
 section  and  you  were  in  full  sun  would 
 be  Pringles  Podarpus.  It's  a  completely 
 different  texture,  [music]  but  it's  dark 
 dark  green  and  it  really  is  easy  to 
 maintain  a  small  planting.  So,  it's  not 
 getting  in  this  height  line,  not  turning 
 to  a  hedge  like  an  arbocaola.  It's  gonna 
 always  stay  in  [music]  this  range  and  no 
 bigger,  which  is  really,  really  perfect 
 for  here.  It's  almost  like  you  want  a 
 hint  of  a  barrier,  but  not  a  wall.  Then 
 right  here,  we  got  a  little  wild  and 
 crazy  because  we  needed  some  brightness. 
 We've  got  green  and  we've  got  green  and 
 we  got  green.  So,  we  needed  something  a 
 little  more  fun  like  the  song  of  India 
 that  we  have  here.  So,  we  have  a  kind  of 
 a  halo  effect  around  the  rear  side  of 
 the  false  agave  with  the  song  of  India. 
 Now,  these  guys  are  ready  to  be  trimmed. 
 The  [music]  best  way  to  keep  them  nice 
 and  full  is  to  trim  these  tops  right 
 here.  So,  you  can  nip  all  of  those  tops 
 and  they'll  push  out  growth  from  the 
 middle.  And  what  you  want  to  do  is  keep 
 encouraging  that  growth.  [music]  If  you 
 let  this  guy,  he  will  kind  of  push  out 
 this  limb  all  the  way  up  to  here.  And 
 that's  not  what  you  want.  We  we  want  a 
 hedge  grouping  of  a  little  [music]  wild 
 and  crazy  leaves.  And  that's  what  you're 
 going to  get  here.  If  you  just  nip  off 
 those  tops,  it'll  [music]  push  out 
 energy  down  below.  So,  that's  the  goal 
 with  these  guys.  So,  they'll  make  a  nice 
 little  halo  [music]  to  the  back  as  they 
 chunk  out.  And  then  right  below  where 
 Bryce  is  standing 
 is  a  nice  collection  of  Helen  Johnson 
 buganvilia.  Just  a  nice  overall  cool 
 plant.  They  can  handle  dry  temperatures 
 and  these  can  handle  a  little  bit  more 
 water  than  your  typical  buganvilia.  And 
 you  [music]  can  see  they  can  be 
 maintained  very  very  clean  line  or  they 
 can  be  left  more  casual.  One  of  the 
 questions  I  commonly  get  is  rock  really 
 unhealthy  for  your  plants.  Yes  and  no. 
 You  know  your  rock  can  really  um  heat  up 
 the  ground.  So  during  our  summer  months, 
 our  June,  July,  August,  you  guys  know 
 they're  brutal.  Those  of  you  guys  who 
 don't  go  up  north  and  you  you're  here 
 during  those  times,  you  you  know  what 
 I'm  talking  about.  It's  pretty  brutal. 
 They  will  create  a  [music]  just  hot 
 pocket  in  the  garden.  So  what  you  want 
 to  make  sure  if  you're  planting  in  rock, 
 use  rock,  lovable  material,  things  that 
 do  not  mind  getting  hot.  Dwarf  Buggan 
 blew  my  minds,  song  of  India,  [music] 
 dwarf  Kucia,  and  so  on.  All right,  you 
 guys.  So  that  does  it  for  our  front  yard 
 garden  tour.  I  hope  you  got  some  really 
 good  ideas  and  some  inspiration  from  it. 
 If  you  need  more  inspiration,  then  you 
 know  to  reach  out  to  your  girl.  She's  a 
 landscape  designer  and  be  happy  to  meet 
 with  you  to  kind  of  create  something 
 beautiful.  Those  DIYers  out  there,  we 
 did  a  video  last  week  that  was  lovely. 
 Me  and  Bryce  talking  about  how  to  get 
 started,  the  steps  kind  of  to  take  as  in 
 creating  your  outdoor  space  and  making 
 it  perfect  and  making  it  yours.  So 
 hopefully  some  of  those  tidbits  from  us 
 will  help  you  guys  create  something 
 beautiful.  So,  we  will  put  that  right 
 here  and  you  guys  can  click  on  that  and 
 enjoy.  We  will  see  you  next  weekend  for 
 a  brand  new  garden  tour.  Thank  you  guys 
 so  much  for  visiting.  It  was  fun.  Take 
 care.

---

 Well,  hello  true  gardeners.  Welcome 
 [music]  back.  So,  today  Bryce  and  I  are 
 in  our  neck  of  the  woods.  We're  in  Vero 
 Beach,  Florida,  and  we're  going  to  visit 
 McKe  Botanical  Gardens.  [music]  We're 
 going  to  take  you  guys  on  this  tour  with 
 us  because  I  don't  know  if  you  guys  are 
 feeling  a  little  bit  like  we  are,  but 
 we've  [music]  been  a  little  cooped  up 
 lately  in  the  holidays  and  everything 
 that  goes  on  along  with  the  holidays. 
 We're  two  designers  that  need  some 
 [music]  inspiration.  So,  that's  exactly 
 what  we're  doing  here  today.  So 
 hopefully  it  inspires  us  and  it  inspires 
 you  and  we're  going  to  share  with  you 
 [music]  all  of  this  beautiful  18  acres 
 of  gorgeous,  gorgeous  tropical  fun.  You 
 guys,  if  you  like  this  kind  of  content, 
 be  sure  to  like  and  subscribe.  [music] 
 And  if  there's  a  botanical  garden  that 
 you've  been  to  that  you  absolutely  love, 
 then  please  share  it  with  us  in  the 
 comments  down  below.  But  let's  jump 
 right  in  and  uh  see  some  [music]  of 
 these  tropicals. 
 Oh  wow,  look  at  this  guy.  What  a 
 gorgeous  display.  Oh  my  goodness.  Isn't 
 it  cool? 
 And  I  think  we're  just  going  to  go  right 
 up  and  then  head  right  into  the  Royal 
 Palm  Grove.  So,  this  right  here,  you 
 guys,  [music]  is  the  entrance  of  the 
 garden.  Oh  my  goodness.  And  just  a  feast 
 for  the  eyes.  And  then,  of  course,  you 
 [music]  see  the  large  Christmas  tree 
 greeting  you  as  you  come  in. 
 So,  if  you  guys  have  those  stumps 
 [music]  in  your  in  your  garden  and  you 
 kind  of  don't  know  what  to  do  with  them, 
 I  don't  know if  you  remember  my  garden 
 and  how  I  have  a  big  oak  tree  stump  and 
 I  put  a  burmilad  in  it.  This  is  where  I 
 got  that  idea.  They've  got  several 
 stumps  with  really  cool  displays.  This 
 just  happens  to  be  in  the  front,  so  I 
 thought  I  would  share  it.  But  drill  a 
 little  hole  in  that  stump  and  put 
 something  like  a  grouping  of  bermilads 
 around  it  because  they  have  such  a 
 little  root  system.  It  really  just 
 doesn't  take  much  effort  to  kind  of  do 
 that.  Add  some  moss,  drape  it  down,  and 
 voila,  you  have  a  natural  planter  in  the 
 garden,  which  I  think  is  so  cool.  And 
 they  pair  it  with  these  gorgeous 
 Americana  agave.  Neat  little  entrance 
 feel  right  here  as  you're  coming  into 
 the  garden.  I  love  this. 
 Just  right  out  of  the  hole  of  the 
 boulder.  How  cool  is  that? 
 So,  those  of  you  guys  who  have 
 yesterday,  today,  and  tomorrow's,  you 
 know,  this  is  their  time  to  shine.  This 
 is  when  they're  really  glorious.  The 
 rest  of  the  year,  they're  kind  of  just 
 green  shrubs,  but  right  now,  it's  just 
 like,  oh  my  goodness,  with  their  purple 
 and  white  blooms.  [music]  There's  just 
 not  many  things  in  Florida  that  offer 
 that.  I  wish  they  did  that  more  often 
 and  I  I  would  use  them  more,  [music]  but 
 this  time  of  the  year  I  makes  me  want  to 
 get  one  every  single  time.  All right,  I 
 think  we're  going  to  head  over  to 
 Bolivia.  So,  they  have  these  little 
 posts  and  signs  kind  of  at  your  the 
 little  intersection  showing  you  where 
 you  want  to  go.  They  have  Bolivia  this 
 way,  Venezuela,  and  they  just  threw  in 
 the  model  train  option.  I  don't  know.  I 
 don't  know  what  that's  about,  but  I 
 guess  we're  going  to  find  out.  So,  we're 
 going  to  head  over  this  way. 
 So  right  here  we  have  a  reclanada 
 cluster.  Now  this  guy  is  is  kind  of  you 
 can  tell  he's  really  old.  He's  got  some 
 age  on  him.  This  tree  gets  a  nice  size 
 to  it.  Has  multiple  trunks  and  it's  in 
 the  phoenix  family.  So  you  can  see  why  a 
 lot of  people  go  with  pygmies  because 
 this  is  a  a  bit  aggressive  for  most 
 yards,  but  it  is  really  cool  how  the 
 trunks  just  do  whatever  they  want  to  do. 
 It's  how  this  is  an  old  specimen. 
 We'll  just  get  us  a  little  screenshot  of 
 us  doing  that. 
 So,  we  got  a  little  detour.  And  I  have  a 
 feeling  this  is  going  to  happen  often, 
 but  I  caught  this  out  of  the  corner  of 
 my  eye.  Look  how  cool  this  wreath  is, 
 you  guys.  [music]  I  It's  just  so  neat. 
 Makes  me  want  to  do  this  next  year. 
 >> How  do  you  even  do  that? 
 >> It's  just  a  wreath  full  of  airplants.  I 
 think  that  is  just  so  stunning. 
 >> Yeah,  that  is  so  cool.  Okay,  I  don't 
 know  if  I'm  supposed  to  be  back  here, 
 but  you  guys,  this  is  exactly  what  I'm 
 talking  about.  The  most  perfectly  placed 
 statue.  She's  watering  the  bird's  nest 
 fern.  And  she  like  she  is  huge.  She's 
 like  almost  as  tall  as  I  am.  I  want  I 
 want  her.  I  think  this  is  just  so  cool. 
 So  great. 
 >> You  better  be  careful.  They  got  to  put 
 cameras  on  you  at  night.  [laughter] 
 >> I  know.  I  know.  I  just  think  she  is  so 
 cool  out  in  the  garden.  Hey,  you  guys 
 check  out  this  old  man  palm.  How  cool  is 
 he?  He's  got  all  that  gruff  at  the 
 bottom.  It  is  just  so  neat.  You  can  just 
 really  see  this  old  man  fuzz. 
 >> Yeah. 
 >> Right  along  this  base.  [music]  It  is 
 just  so  cool. 
 >> It's  like  a  big  beard. 
 >> It  is  like  a  big  beard.  That's  exactly 
 what  it's  like.  Excuse  [music]  me,  sir. 
 We  shall  be  leaving  now.  Hello. 
 Hello.  Look  at  [music]  this  Christmas 
 tree  and  that  topper.  Oh,  the  birds. 
 Now,  I  could  totally  get  behind  a 
 Christmas  tree  [music]  like  this. 
 >> It's  a  bromeilad  Christmas  tree. 
 >> It  is  a  bromeilad  Christmas  tree. 
 >> These  like  alive? 
 >> Yes,  they're  absolutely  alive.  So,  sorry 
 about  that,  fellas. 
 All  right,  you  guys.  So,  if  you  have 
 that  dead  tree  in  the  yard,  just  knock 
 that  bad  boy  right  over.  Stick  some 
 ferns  on  it  or  some  filidendrian,  add  a 
 statue  behind,  and  voila,  you  have  a 
 perfect  little  display. 
 a  little  botanical  garden  in  your 
 backyard. 
 >> Seems  like  he  always  drifts  [music] 
 towards  the  driftwood,  don't  you? 
 >> Anytime  you  can  change  an  element  in  the 
 garden,  whether  it's  a  boulder,  a  piece 
 of  driftwood,  add  a  statue,  then  put  all 
 your  soft  plants  around  it,  it's  almost 
 like  you  are  creating  a  little  piece  of 
 art  in  the  garden.  So,  I  think  it's 
 cool. 
 >> Can't  agree  with  that. 
 >> All  right,  so  right  now  we  are  in  Palm 
 Alley.  Look  at  this.  Look  at  these  royal 
 palms. 
 Gosh,  they  have  to  be  30,  40  foot  tall. 
 >> It's  pretty  impressive. 
 Just  a  little  shallow  river. 
 Gosh,  I  could  have  this  in  my  backyard. 
 >> Would  you  put  a  couple  koi  ponds  or  no? 
 Would  you  put  a  couple  koi  fish  in  here? 
 >> I  might  have  to.  Looks  like  it  [music] 
 runs  so  beautifully.  It's  just  so 
 shallow.  Look  at  that.  Talk  about  a 
 meditative  spot. 
 I  would  have  benches  everywhere.  If  I 
 had  18  acres  to  work  with,  this  is  what 
 I  would  do  with  my  space.  It  It  would 
 look  like  this.  Look  at  these  gingers 
 just  falling  over  the  edging,  kind  of 
 softening  all  the  boulders.  I  just  think 
 that's  stunning. 
 >> Do  you  know  the  names  of  these? 
 >> Those  are  chenille  plants.  They  come  in 
 a  ground  cover  and  they  come  in  big  bush 
 form  just  like  this.  The  ground  cover  is 
 really  interesting  because  you  can  use 
 it  and  it  stays  around  that  twoft  range 
 and  it  blooms  just  like  this  in  this 
 kind  of  environment.  And  all  these  trees 
 are  creating  a  pocket  of  shade  for  it 
 and  it  absolutely  appreciates  it  by 
 these  cool  like  I  don't  know  like  a 
 firecracker  like  bloom  that  comes  out  of 
 it  and  it's  just  really  really  neat. 
 >> Yeah,  super  cool. 
 >> Yeah,  definitely  an  interesting  texture 
 in  the  garden.  And  I  know  a  lot  of 
 people  wonder  if  palm  trees  will 
 actually  offer  you  any  shade  and  that 
 tells  you  everything.  If  you  have  enough 
 of  them,  absolutely.  They  will  blot 
 [music]  out  the  sun. 
 Oh,  look  at  this.  I  love  this  entrance 
 pots. 
 This  is  what  I'm  talking  about,  you 
 guys.  Putting  a  cool  pot  right  in  the 
 garden,  right  at  the  entry  point. 
 [music]  What  the  pedestals  these  are. 
 Something  else  I  want  to  take  with  me. 
 Look  at  these  Rojo  Congos.  What  a  nice 
 [music]  display  of  them.  What's  so  funny 
 is  you  can  see  the  ones  that  have  a 
 little  bit  more  sunlight  have  a  little 
 bit  more  of  the  red  backing  and  more  of 
 the  veining.  And  then  the  ones  that  are 
 over  here  in  the  shade  more  have  [music] 
 more  of  the  the  duller  pattern.  Still 
 beautiful  in  its  own  right.  But  what  a 
 cool  plant.  What  a  nice  little  curved 
 display. 
 >> Rattlesnake  plants  right  over  here  too, 
 right? 
 >> Yeah.  Look  how  nice  they  look.  I've 
 always  had  trouble  with  those.  I  They 
 must  be  doing  something  right  here 
 because  I  don't  have  a  lot  of  luck.  Oh, 
 how  cool  is  that?  I'm  sorry,  you  guys. 
 You  check  it  out. 
 >> Yeah,  go  ahead. 
 >> Spin  it. 
 >> Oh,  it  does. 
 >> Yep. 
 >> Oh,  I  did.  Yeah,  I  know.  I  did  spin  it. 
 >> Oh,  wow. 
 >> Now  look  through  it. 
 >> Oh,  no. 
 >> That's  so  cool. 
 >> Oh,  that  is  awesome. 
 [laughter] 
 >> There's  tiny  little  flex  spooning  and  no 
 one  can  see  it  cuz  the  plants  are  all 
 overthrowing  it. 
 >> That's  so  special. 
 >> That's  hilarious. 
 >> Thank  you.  [laughter] 
 Okay,  so  we  have  another  potted  plant  in 
 here.  This  looks  like  a  a  cur  curled 
 [music]  poinsetta. 
 Look  at  how  pretty  that  is.  I've  not 
 seen  one  of  those  before.  It's  like  a 
 little  rose.  It's  like  it  just  like  it's 
 been  used  in  my  curling  iron. 
 >> It's  such  a  soft  flower,  too. 
 >> Very  festive.  A  nice  collection  [music] 
 of  diamond  quarter  lines.  Hello,  ladies. 
 You  look  wonderful  underneath  this  big 
 giant  royal. 
 Looks  like  this  giant  fig  leaf.  I  wonder 
 what  kind  of  vine  that  is.  You  guys  know 
 what  kind  of  vine  that  is. 
 Let  us  know.  I  don't  know  if  we're  in 
 Bolivia  anymore. 
 >> Look  at  the  big  mushrooms. 
 >> Oh  my  gosh.  I  have  found  the  statue  I 
 want  to  bring  home. 
 [laughter] 
 >> It's  got  a  little  owl  on  it. 
 >> It's  so  cool.  [laughter] 
 Okay,  I  want  selfie  pictures.  Bryce, 
 underneath  this  guy. 
 This  is  the  probably  the  the  type  of 
 bamboo  that  you  do  not  want  to  plant  in 
 your  garden.  But  what  a  stunner  it 
 makes.  Look  at  how  they're  crossing  over 
 each  other. 
 >> Very  cool. 
 >> Very  cool. 
 Let's  go  left. 
 >> Left.  Well,  I  think  that  you  don't 
 really  have  a  choice.  [laughter] 
 >> That's  why  I  said  it. 
 >> Okay. 
 >> Bamboo's  at  McKe.  Bamboo  is  a  flowering 
 perennial  evergreen  plant  in  the  grass 
 family.  [music]  the  grass  family.  It  can 
 be  grown  in  different  altitudes  and 
 climate  conditions  in  Asia,  Australia, 
 North  and  South  America,  and  Africa. 
 [music]  It  does  kind  of  scare  me  that 
 something  can  grow  that  fast  in  24 
 hours. 
 >> Yeah,  3  ft  is  in  24  hours  is  crazy. 
 >> So,  there's  our  epipites  and  they're 
 going  to  grow  right  on  the  tree  just 
 like  so.  So  if  you  like  me  and  you  don't 
 have  any  more  ground  space  to  plant 
 things,  start  working  your  way  up  your 
 trees  because  these  epipites  and  of 
 course  we  all  know  bmilads  do  the  same 
 thing.  So  you  can  just  kind  of  right  up 
 the  tree,  get  some  extra  square  footage. 
 >> You  tie  them  with  a  zip  tie  or  do  you 
 just  get  a  [music]  little  string? 
 >> You  can  do  a  zip  tie.  They  have  a  little 
 bit  of  a  root  system.  You  go  to  the 
 dollar  store  and  get  a  bunch  of 
 stockings  and  just  wrap  them  around  with 
 the  stockings.  They'll  decompose.  By  the 
 time  they  decompose,  the  roots  have 
 taken  hold  and  you're  you're  golden. 
 Wow. 
 >> It's  pretty  cool. 
 >> That  is  stunning.  What  craftsmanship, 
 >> you  know,  it's  pretty  impressive  that 
 something  that  grows  that  fast  [music] 
 can  grow  that  fast  and  that  strong  at 
 the  same  time. 
 You  know,  with  how  fast  it  grows,  this 
 could  really  just  be  one  bamboo. 
 >> Look  at  the  stalks  on  this.  Look  at  how 
 large  they  are.  And  the  leaves  are  just 
 I  don't know.  It  has  such  an  Asian 
 [music]  feel.  I  put  that  in  an  Asian 
 garden  somewhere.  Oh  my  goodness. 
 Stunning. 
 >> Oh,  is  that  your  penango  coronada? 
 >> Yes,  sir,  it  is. 
 Hello,  gorgeous  girl.  This  is  a  very  old 
 one  because  as  you  guys  know,  you've 
 seen  mine.  It's  kind  of  tall  and  thin  in 
 the  garden.  But  yes,  they  will  multiply 
 trunks  and  give  you  that  size,  but  in  a 
 very  long  time.  This  this  gu  is  probably 
 quite  old. 
 >> You  can  always  tell  it's  a  paneanga 
 corona  just  because  of  the  leaf 
 structure.  Like  look  at  this.  I  don't 
 think  there's  really  anything  that 
 replicates  that. 
 >> No.  And  what's  great  about  these  guys  is 
 if  you  got  a  more  of  a  narrow  spot  and 
 you  need  something  to  really  stay  put 
 for  a  long  period  of  time,  they're  just 
 a  fantastic  vertical  plant.  And  then  if 
 this  feels  like  it's  just  too  big  for 
 you  guys,  these  do  create  little  [music] 
 pups,  but  they're  really  nice  and  tight 
 to  the  trunk  itself.  So  you  can  just 
 take  those  pups  off  and  no  one's  the 
 wiser.  Or  you  don't  have  this  much 
 height  to  work  with  and  you  don't,  you 
 [music]  know,  cuz  this  is  kind  of  a  good 
 size  right  now.  You  can  literally  take 
 the  height  out  by  taking  the  center 
 [music]  trunks  off  and  you're  not  going 
 to  affect  the  tree  at  all  because  they 
 survive.  Individual  pups  survive  on 
 their  own.  That's  a  better  illustration 
 of  an  old  man  palm.  You  guys  [music] 
 look  at  just  how  cool  that  beard  is. 
 You  know,  I've  I've  never  really  use 
 them  in  a  garden.  They're  a  little  bit 
 pricey  and  I  feel  like  they  don't  really 
 kind  of  pop  out  at  you  to  kind  of  give 
 you  that  I  don't  know  that  tropical  kind 
 of  jungle  feel  instantly.  But  I  I  don't 
 know  maybe  it's  some  as  I'm  getting 
 older  I've  learned  to  appreciate  them 
 more  and  more  for  that  kind  of  rustic 
 charm  that  they  offer.  And  right  here  I 
 think  he  is  super  cool  right  next  to 
 this  big  giant  alicasia.  I  mean  look  at 
 that  guy.  Wow.  What  a  contrast.  [music] 
 And  that's  what's  great  about  the 
 diversity  of  plants  and  trees  when  you 
 see  them  put  together  because  they 
 really  show  off  so  well  when  you  have 
 something  super  polished  or  something 
 super  shiny  next  to  something  that's  a 
 little  bit  gruff,  a  little  bit  old.  It 
 really  does  really  shows  off  so  nicely. 
 You  know,  I  saw  this  in  the  Miami 
 Botanical  Garden.  It's  [music]  called  a 
 savannah  palm. 
 >> They're  huge. 
 those  stocks.  And  you  can  see  I  don't 
 know  if  it's  [music]  naturally  grown 
 that  way  or  because  it's  in  the  shade 
 it's  stretching  to  try  to  reach  the 
 sunlight.  They'll  do  that  where  they'll 
 have  a  long  long  frond  before  it  opens 
 up  just  to  stretch  to  get  to  [music]  the 
 sun.  So,  I  don't  know  if  that's  their 
 natural  look.  I've  never  used  one  in  my 
 landscapes,  but  it's  [music]  nice  to 
 know  that  they  grow  here  and  grow  well, 
 it  looks  like.  All  right.  So,  next  we 
 [music]  are  going  to  Peru  where  I'm 
 from.  So,  let's  make  our  way  home. 
 that  powderpuff  tree  just  kind  of  over 
 top  of  the  waterline.  Now,  that's  a 
 white  and  you  don't  see  them  very  often. 
 You  usually  get  the  pinks  and  the  reds. 
 So,  to  see  a  white  is  super  cool.  I'm 
 wondering  if  that  was  originally  a  bush 
 that's  been  turned  into  a  tree 
 because  they're  so  rare.  Visiting  a 
 botanical  garden  is  a  great  way  to 
 almost  like  do  your  research  within  your 
 research  because  you  know  that  if  it's 
 here  and  it's  living  in  your  zone,  it's 
 definitely  something  worth  trying.  So, 
 we  are  in  Peru  now  and  we've  got  some 
 Malaysian  orchids.  So,  [laughter] 
 they're  visiting  Peru.  But  I  think  what 
 calls  to  me  the  most  is  the  pottery.  So, 
 this  is  definitely  a  Peru  style  pottery. 
 Look  at  all  of  this  color.  Look at  this 
 beautiful  tile.  Oh  my  goodness. 
 So,  I  was  born  in  Peru.  My  father  met  my 
 mother  there.  He's  American.  [music]  I 
 lived  there  until  I  was  about  five  and 
 then  uh  then  came  here.  My  parents 
 opened  a  design  studio,  a  carpet  and 
 tile  and  wallpaper  place  in  Okchobee, 
 little  town  of  Okachchobee,  but  most  of 
 you  guys  probably  don't  know  where 
 that's  at.  And  now  we're  here.  We've 
 been  working  in  design,  and  you  guys 
 know  the  rest  of  it,  that  my  son  works 
 with  me,  so  does  my  daughter-in-law. 
 We're  a  family  business.  And  um  I  am 
 thankful  for  my  roots,  and  [music]  I'm 
 thankful  for  where  I  am  right  here 
 today.  And  I'm  thankful  that  you  guys 
 are  here  with  us.  I  love  that  we  get  to 
 share  this  aspect  of  of  our  work  and  our 
 life  together.  You  guys  kind  of  get  to 
 see  it  kind  of  unfold  every  single  week. 
 And  I  I  don't know.  I  think  that  this  is 
 just  so  charming.  And  now  I've  got  ADV 
 again  because  the  waterfall  is  calling 
 my  name.  We  are  going  this  way.  You  guys 
 look  at  all  of  the  little  glass  work 
 that's  embedded  into  the  waterfall 
 stone. 
 All  right.  I'm  gonna  have  to  figure  out 
 what  I  can  use  to  recreate  this  kind  of 
 look  because  I  like  it. 
 >> Look  at  these  lobster  claws.  They  are 
 doing  amazing. 
 >> They  are.  Aren't  they  gorgeous?  They're 
 [music]  stunning.  I  love  these  vertical 
 heliconas.  I  mean,  literally,  I  walked 
 right  underneath  here  and  they  go  right 
 into  shade.  Just  shades  out  and  creates 
 such  a  nice  little  shade  garden. 
 They  offer  you  a  pretty  [music] 
 instantaneous  jungle  vibe.  They  grow 
 quite  fast.  Now,  they  do  spread  a  bit, 
 so  you'll  have  to  kind  of  stay  on  top  of 
 that,  but  I  do  think  that  they  offer 
 quite  a  bit  of  impact.  And  the  fact  that 
 they  do  spread  and  kind  of  give  you  some 
 thickness  is  ideal.  Now,  they  don't  have 
 them  tied  up,  but  the  one  lobster  claw 
 that  I  have  at  my  house,  I  have  it  kind 
 of  banded  together,  like  the  whole 
 cluster,  so  it  really  keeps  it  real 
 thick  and  dense,  and  then  I  kind  of 
 camouflage  the  banding.  know,  it's  super 
 easy  to  maintain  because  whatever  you 
 don't  want,  you  just  get  rid  of.  So,  say 
 for  instance  that  this  is  a  this  is  a 
 stock  that's  coming  through  and  it's 
 getting  too  close  into  the  walkway,  you 
 just  really  dig  that  guy  right  back  out. 
 Now,  you  can  do  an  edging  here  and  that 
 does  help  prevent  some  of  that.  But 
 [music]  honestly,  I  think  they  wanted 
 that  kind  of  wild  look.  So,  if  you  like 
 helakonia,  then  you  you  kind  of  are  in 
 line  with  that  wild  look.  Now,  that 
 being  said,  I  don't  ever  plant  the 
 little  small  helakonas  because  they  are 
 spreaders.  [music]  those  guys  will  kind 
 of  take  off  on  you.  Plant  the  big  boys. 
 These  are  more  of  a  clumping  variety 
 versus  the  little  three  gallon  the  ones 
 you  find  at  Home  Depot  or  Lowe's.  The 
 ones  with  the  small  stems,  those  can  be 
 scary  in  the  garden.  So,  you  kind  of 
 want  to  avoid  planting  those  at  all 
 costs.  If  you  love  this  plant  and  you 
 have  to  have  it  and  you  know  that  it 
 only  really  gives  you  this  blooming 
 cycle  about  3  months  out  of  the  year, 
 but  it  happens  to  be  the  3  months  that 
 you  might  be  in  Florida,  this  is  totally 
 worth  it.  When  I  design  with  this 
 particular  plant,  I  always  make  sure 
 it's  a  backdrop.  Kind  of  like  I  do  the 
 plumeriia  [music]  trees,  you  know,  so 
 that  way  when  they're  not  nice  and 
 pretty  and  gorgeous,  they're  kind  of  in 
 the  background  and  you  don't  notice 
 them,  but  when  they're  blooming,  they're 
 taking  over  a  space.  So,  they  really  are 
 like  a  peekab-oo  plant.  So,  how  I  would 
 plant  this  is  I  would  put  it  to  the 
 backdrop,  give  myself  plenty  of  room  to 
 put  some  layers  of  material  to  the  front 
 of  it,  so  when  it's  just  green,  it's 
 just  a  green  backdrop.  during  the  the 
 winter  season  and  the  and  the  fall 
 season.  It's  giving  you  what  it's  giving 
 you,  which  is  this.  So,  definitely  worth 
 having  the  garden  if  that's  your  your 
 time  of  being  in  Florida.  Wow. 
 It's  like  it's  the  attack  of  the  bamboo. 
 It's  right  there  in  the  middle  of  all 
 that  poor  oak  [music]  tree.  If  you  love 
 the  look  of  some  of  these  water  plants, 
 there's  some  really  gorgeous  ones. 
 [music]  I  know  these  aren't  doing  super 
 super  well,  but  if  you've  got  a  pot, 
 plug  that  hole,  put  it  in  the  garden, 
 just  leave  it  out  in  the  water.  It 
 doesn't  need  movement.  You  can  throw 
 throw  a  donut  in  there  every  once  in  a 
 while  so  you  can  avoid  [music]  the 
 mosquitoes.  But  very  very  cool  to  just 
 have  a  water  plant  sitting  in  the  middle 
 of  your  in  the  middle  of  your  garden. 
 Look,  bamboo  art. 
 >> It's  kind  [music]  of  funny  cuz  if  you 
 were  to  see  this  like  some  signatures 
 all  the  way  up  there,  you  just  knew  how 
 fast  it  grew.  [laughter] 
 >> That's  true.  That's  right. 
 This  is  probably  a  seedling.  It  was 
 probably  a  volunteer  from  another  tree. 
 That  guy  right  there.  Um,  but  I  just  I 
 love  when  they're  young  like  this,  if 
 you  put  them  in  a  shady  spot  just  like 
 you  see  here,  their  stems,  these  stems 
 will  kind  of  pop  out  and  they'll  be  like 
 the  stems  themselves  will  be  like  10t 
 tall  before  it  opens  up  to  a  frond 
 because  it's  trying  to  find  the  sun.  So, 
 as  this  tree  grows,  this  tree  right  here 
 will  have  an  awesome  stemming.  It'll  be 
 searching  for  that  sun.  This  trail 
 celebrates  the  native  flora,  the  frame 
 on  which  our  garden  is  built. 
 >> This  is  why  there  are  no  weeds  here 
 because  this  forest  floor  is  just  the 
 way  nature  intended  it  to  be.  In  my 
 garden,  I've  done  the  same  thing  with 
 different  plant  species  that  are  more  of 
 a  ground  cover  grouping.  You  know,  the 
 burl  marks,  the  aglioneas,  um  foxtail 
 ferns,  things  that  [music]  that  give  you 
 such  density  in  the  garden  that  create 
 its  own  ground  cover,  its  own 
 microclimate.  Not  only  is  it  helping  to 
 bring  humidity  and  keep  warm  air  in  my 
 garden,  but  it's  kind  of  really  helping 
 me  from  weeding.  I  because  when  you  have 
 all  this  going  on,  you  have  very  little 
 room  for  growth.  So,  it's  fabulous  to 
 just  kind  [music]  of  have  a  ground  cover 
 floor  just  like  nature  does.  The 
 brightness,  the  [music]  softness,  it's 
 just  such  a  delicate  flower.  Now,  I've 
 used  the  shrimp  plants,  the  button 
 shrimp  plants  that  are  the  darker 
 yellow,  but  I've  never  ever  used  these 
 before.  And  I  can  see  they're  probably 
 um  on  the  higher  maintenance  side.  They 
 have  a  big  long  stem.  But  gosh,  [music] 
 to  have  something  like  this  in  a  shady 
 garden,  this  might  be  perfect  to  put  in 
 a  pot,  like  a  collection  of  these  in  one 
 area,  and  just  let  this  pop  out  into  a 
 walkway  just  like  it  is  here.  It's  just 
 such  a  delicate  pop  of  brightness,  like 
 a  spotlight.  If  you  guys  know  much  about 
 it,  please  leave  in  the  comments  down 
 below  because  I  um  I  I  think  I'm  in 
 love.  I  mean,  it  doesn't  this  look  like 
 a  sculpture  in  the  [music]  garden? 
 >> Really  does.  Then,  and  I've  seen  them 
 where  they  have  bigger  heads  to  them. 
 This  one's  in  the  shade,  so  you  can  tell 
 it's  a  little  stunted,  [music] 
 but  they  get  enormous.  I've  planted 
 several  of  them  in  really,  really 
 interesting  gardens.  Are  they  not  cool? 
 They've  got  the  Malaysian  orchid  plant 
 in  there.  Now,  I've  tried  to  plant  this 
 in  the  ground,  you  guys.  I  don't  know  if 
 anybody  else  has  had  some  success  with 
 it,  [music]  and  I  cannot  make  them  grow 
 in  the  ground,  but  in  a  pot,  they  are 
 super  hearty.  They  really  can  stay  in 
 that  pot  for  a  very  long  time  without 
 getting  pot  bound.  I've  had  one  in  a  pot 
 for  five  years,  which  is  kind  of  unheard 
 of  for  potted  plants.  You  know,  usually 
 you  have  a  2-year  turnaround  for 
 anything  to  be  super  healthy,  but  every 
 single  year  it  blooms.  So,  if  you  have  a 
 shady  spot  and  you're  looking  for 
 something  interesting,  an  interesting 
 leaf,  and  the  blooming  cycle  on  these 
 are  really,  really  good.  They  bloom  in 
 all  the  cooler  months.  Oh  my  goodness. 
 Hello,  birds  nests.  Look  it.  It's  just 
 like  a  sea  of  them.  They're  just 
 beautiful.  If  I  had  the  room,  I'd  have  a 
 whole  bird's  nest  community  of  ferns  in 
 my  garden.  I  have  like  a,  you  know,  a 
 clustering  here  and  there,  but  I  would 
 literally  just  like  this  carve  out  one 
 section  for  them  all.  The  normal  and 
 then  we  call  it  lasagna.  That's  the 
 nickname  of  it.  I  don't  know  what  the 
 species  name  is.  Maybe  I  can  find  a 
 plaque. 
 Nice  to  have  the  botanical  name  every 
 once  in  a  while,  huh?  Oh,  this  one's 
 very  happy  in  here,  isn't  he?  Very 
 [music]  pretty.  McDow.  Is  that  the  name 
 of  it? 
 >> Mhm. 
 >> Okay. 
 >> Very  pretty.  Love  the  veining  on  this 
 guy  here. 
 >> Mhm. 
 >> All  right.  I  think  we're  on  our  way  to 
 Brazil  now. 
 >> Oh  my  goodness.  The  carpoxilon.  Look  at 
 you. 
 Beautiful.  Look  at  this  branching.  But 
 look  [music]  at  how  that  curl  that  leaf 
 curl  is.  And  it's  always  the  perfect 
 kind  of  green.  I  just  think  they're  just 
 such  a  beautiful  to  me.  This  tree  has 
 such  an  elegance  to  it,  doesn't  it, 
 Bryce? 
 >> Oh,  no.  It's  pretty. 
 >> Now,  they  grow  super  slow,  which  is  the 
 unfortunate  [music]  thing,  but  if  you 
 find  one,  even  if  it's  little,  you  guys 
 pick  it  up.  It  is  such  a  tough  tree.  So, 
 very  interesting.  And  I  just  love  that 
 it  can  actually  fit,  and  it  doesn't  look 
 like  it  here,  but  it  can  fit  in  more  of 
 a  compact  space  because  as  it  grows  up, 
 that  leaf,  it  pops  up  and  then  curls 
 down.  So  you  get  like  a  bunch  of  leaves 
 in  one  little  collection,  which  is  super 
 cool.  Those  burmilads  that  we  just 
 talked  about,  this  is  what  they  look 
 like  when  they  start  to  fill  out.  So  you 
 start  them  off  and  as  they  carry 
 through,  they  just  multiply  and  multiply 
 and  multiply  and  [music]  then  all  of  a 
 sudden  you  have  a  sculpture,  a  burmilad 
 sculpture  in  your  garden.  So  if  you've 
 got  a  kind  of  a  unique  dark  spot, 
 there's  some  really  pretty  bmilad 
 options  that  you  can  use  and  just  let 
 them  climb  the  tree.  Is  a  kabato  palm. 
 It  is.  It's  probably  one  of  the  tallest 
 ones  I've  [music]  ever  seen.  Now,  a  lot 
 of  people  confuse  those  with  a  RA  palms, 
 but  they  are  not.  As  those  chunks  get 
 bigger,  um,  they  have  a  [music]  nice 
 white  ring  around  them.  That  nice 
 whitening  to  the  ring.  And  this  one's  a 
 little  darker  than  normal,  probably 
 because  it's  in  the  direct  shade.  But 
 this  tree  is  stunning.  And  surprise, 
 surprise,  [music]  I  just  got  one.  I  have 
 a  new  addition  in  my  backyard.  I've  been 
 saving  this  kabat  of  palm  for  ages 
 because  it's  so  hard  to  get  my  crew  at 
 my  house  because  that's  not  the  way  it 
 always  goes.  All right,  and  just  like 
 that,  you  guys,  we  are  back  at  the 
 front.  I  know  we  did  not  get  time  to  hit 
 all  the  18  acres,  but  I  hope  that  it 
 brought  you  some  happiness  because  I  am 
 leaving  with  a  smile.  I  know  Bryce  is 
 leaving  with  a  smile.  And  I  hope  that 
 this  video  was  something  that  you  guys 
 enjoyed.  you  got  to  sip  your  morning 
 coffee  over  or  in  the  evening  having 
 your  glass  of  wine  with  because  I  love 
 that  we're  sharing  our  beverages 
 together.  Thank  you  guys  so  much  for 
 joining  us  and  I  will  see  you  next  week 
 at  our  next  garden

---

 So,  it's  getting  cold,  you  guys.  And  if 
 you're  getting  cold  here  in  Florida, 
 imagine  what  your  poor  poor  plants  are 
 going  to  do.  So,  today's  video  [music] 
 is  all  about  five  tips  on  how  to  keep 
 your  garden,  your  tropicals  super  safe 
 [music]  this  cold  season.  We  put  a  great 
 deal  of  effort  into  these  videos  and  try 
 to  find  some  things  that  you  guys  really 
 enjoy  watching  [music]  as  well  as  making 
 it  as  educational  as  possible.  So,  we 
 really  appreciate  your  support  [music] 
 and  subscribing  and  checking  out  our 
 channel.  Well,  it  really  helps  to  give 
 us  that  pat  on  the  back  that  we  are 
 doing  something  right  and  also  puts  us 
 in  your  [music]  feed  if  this  is  the  kind 
 of  stuff  that  you  like  to  see  every 
 single  week.  So,  the  very  first  tip 
 [music]  is  an  easy  one.  Now,  we  know 
 when  these  cold  fronts  hit,  the  news 
 goes  crazy.  Everybody  goes  nuts  and 
 winter  is  coming.  So,  we  know  when  a 
 cold  front  is  happening  here  in  Florida. 
 [music]  So,  when  that  does  happen,  a 
 couple  days  in  advance,  make  sure  to  up 
 that  water.  If  you've  got  an  irrigation 
 system,  make  sure  to  double  the  time 
 that  you  currently  have.  If  you  have  it 
 on  for  20  minutes,  those  [music]  two 
 days  prior  to  a  freeze,  hit  it  for 
 double  that  amount  of  time.  Make  sure 
 that  everything's  a  little  bit  soggy, 
 really,  really,  really  hydrated  because 
 they're  going  to  need  that  that  little 
 bit  of  protection  from  the  very 
 beginning.  And  then  the  day  of  the 
 freeze,  cut  that  water  off.  Cut  [music] 
 it  completely  off.  You  want  to  let  prior 
 to  covering  or  doing  your  next  step,  you 
 want  to  make  sure  that  that  water  is 
 there  to  set  and  settle  and  be  warm  in 
 the  earth  because  that  that  water  turns 
 into  like  an  an  insulation  around  the 
 root  system.  Think  of  it  as  a  hot  water 
 bottle  cozing  you  up  during  those  cold 
 cold  nights  and  that's  exactly  what  it 
 does.  That  heat  during  the  day  of  our 
 Florida  heat  warms  that  ground.  That 
 water  stays  nice  and  toasty.  Now,  I  know 
 you  guys  I  know  it  sounds  like  it  should 
 be  the  opposite.  Like  don't  water  your 
 plants.  You  don't  want  them  to  freeze, 
 especially  the  water  that's  left  on  the 
 leaves.  That's  the  reason  why  you  stop 
 watering  that  day  prior.  Leading  up  to 
 it,  hit  water  as  much  as  you  can.  But 
 the  day  of  the  freeze,  the  evening  of 
 the  freeze,  make  sure  there  is  no  water 
 on  there  because  you  don't  want  water 
 actually  on  the  [music]  leaves.  The 
 whole  purpose  to  have  the  water  is  to 
 insulate  the  ground,  to  insulate  the 
 root  system  [music]  because  our  ground 
 here  in  Florida  is  pretty  toasty.  So, 
 you  want  to  let  that  water  warm  up  all 
 the  way  around  the  roots  and  that's 
 [music]  what  helps  insulate  it  over 
 time.  So  2  days  prior,  even  the  morning 
 of  [music]  you  can  water  as  long  as  we 
 have  good  sun  out.  But  by  that 
 afternoon,  by  that  evening,  cut  that 
 water  way  off  because  we  don't  want  to 
 take  the  chance  of  burning  any  of  the 
 leaves.  The  whole  goal  of  keeping 
 [music]  the  plants  happy  is  really 
 trying  to  really  protect  the  root 
 system.  If  you  get  a  little  cold  damage 
 on  plants,  as  you  know,  if  you're  from 
 Florida,  you  know  that's  going  to 
 happen.  A  little  frostburn  in  [music] 
 the  spring.  You're  going  to  cut  that 
 back  anyway  and  you're  going to  get  all 
 new  growth.  But  what  we're  trying  to  do 
 is  protect  [music]  the  roots  so  that  way 
 you  get  new  growth  every  single  spring. 
 All right,  you  guys.  For  the  next  tip,  I 
 know  this  is  going  to  come  off  as  just 
 common  sense,  but  the  plant  blanket,  the 
 blankets,  they  work  so  so  well  for 
 covering.  I  mentioned  this  because  I  had 
 a  client  mention  to  me  that  she  used  it 
 and  it  didn't  help  at  all.  And  a  lot  of 
 time,  you  can  toss  it  up  to  more  human 
 error.  There  is  a  proper  way  to  do  plant 
 blankets.  And  I  think  a  lot  of  us  don't 
 realize  this.  this.  I  almost  want  to 
 knock  on  people's  doors  as  I  drive  by 
 and  see  the  plant  blankets  just  kind  of 
 covering  the  top  of  the  blanket.  So, 
 when  you're  using  your  plant  blankets, 
 you  either  use  the  jacket  with  the 
 drawstring  or  you  can  use  the  full  plant 
 blanket.  I  prefer  the  full  plant  blanket 
 probably  because  I  have  tons  and  tons  of 
 plants  and  they  come  in  nice  long  rows. 
 And  the  best  thing  that  you're  going to 
 want  to  do  is  you're  going  to  want  to 
 treat  it  like  a  hot  air  balloon.  And 
 I'll  give  you  an  example  here.  Like  if 
 this  croin  is  [music]  here  and  I  want  to 
 protect  it,  you  want  to  go  around  this 
 croin  all  the  way  [music]  to  the  stem, 
 all  the  way  to  the  ground  here.  I  use 
 weed  barrier  stakes  and  I  put  those  in, 
 but  you  can  use  stones,  you  can  use 
 rocks,  you  can  use  whatever.  You  can  use 
 a  shovel,  whatever  you  have  on  hand.  You 
 want  to  kind  of  mushroom  all  the  way 
 around  here.  And  make  sure  the  plant 
 blanket  is  [music]  tucked  right  along 
 the  base  here  and  into  the  ground.  So 
 that  way  that  hot  air  from  the  the 
 ground  starts  [music]  to  push  up  during 
 that  cold  snap  that  we  have  starts  to 
 release  into  this  plant  blanket.  Because 
 unlike  us  where  we're,  you  know,  have  an 
 internal  [music]  temperature  that  keeps 
 us  warm,  these  guys  don't.  So  having 
 that  plant  blanket  in  there,  you  [music] 
 really  want  to  make  sure  that  you're 
 utilizing  the  the  water  that  you  kind  of 
 helps  keep  warm  in  there  and  then  that 
 once  that  starts  to  release,  that  really 
 does  help  protect  the  plant  itself.  A 
 common  misconception,  it's  kind  of  what 
 I  see  a  lot.  I  I'll  see  it  where  they'll 
 just  kind  of  drape  it  over  top  and  just 
 kind  of  let  it  hang  here  or  maybe  even 
 tie  it  up  to  the  plant  here.  However, 
 unfortunately,  you're  not  focusing  on 
 the  most  important  part.  The  thing  that 
 needs  to  be  done  is  for  this  plant  to  be 
 completely  covered  all  the  way  to  the 
 base  to  [music]  protect  the  root  system. 
 That's  the  thing  that  you  want  to 
 protect  because  in  the  future,  of 
 course,  you  can  cut  some  of  these  old 
 leaves  off  if  they  get  windburnt,  but 
 those  roots,  they  have  to  be  strong 
 enough  to  push  out  new  energy  to  give 
 you  all  that  new  growth  back.  So  the 
 whole  plant  all  the  way  to  the  bottom 
 wants  [music]  to  be  covered.  And  if  you 
 have  the  bonus  of  having  like  a  boulder 
 or  any  kind  of  stones  or  rocks,  cover 
 that  [music]  tube  because  during  the 
 day,  during  the  sunny  part  of  the  day, 
 that  boulder  heats  up  and  it's  again 
 like  a  hot  water  bottle  in  there  and 
 it's  going  to  allow  some  of  that  heat 
 [music]  to  generate  for  inside  of  this 
 plant.  So  anything  like  that  that  you 
 might  have,  totally  cover  it.  If  you 
 have  concrete  edging,  cover  that 
 concrete  edging  with  your  plant  [music] 
 because  that's  going  to  allow  that  heat 
 to  kind  of  penetrate  towards  the  plant. 
 So,  anything  you  can  do  to  help  warm 
 [music]  up  those  little  guys  during 
 those  cold  snaps  going  to  it's  going  to 
 just  pay  off  tremendously.  So,  the  next 
 tip  [music]  is  some  Christmas  lights. 
 So,  I  know  that  you  guys  have  probably 
 heard  this.  Don't  use  your  LED  lights. 
 Use  incandescent  [music] 
 outdoor  rated  lights.  I  like  the  C9 
 variety.  I'll  put  them  in  my  storefront 
 down  below.  They're  fantastic  to  use. 
 You  want  the  big  bulbs  because  they 
 really  do  give  off  the  [music]  most 
 heat.  And  when  they're  outdoor  rated, 
 you  don't  have  to  worry  about  fires.  You 
 don't  have  to  worry  about  any  kind  of 
 issues.  And  they're  kind  of  cool.  I 
 mean,  just  to  have  little  key  areas  that 
 you're  going  to  do  wrap  your  trees  with 
 them.  Now,  I  only  wrap  Christmas  lights 
 around  my  specialty  palms.  my  palms.  I 
 want  to  make  sure  I  don't  lose  any  kind 
 of  height  from  them  or  lose  too  many 
 fronds  from  them  because,  you  know,  it 
 takes  so  long  for  some  of  these 
 specialty  palms  to  get  any  kind  of  real 
 size  to  them  like  my  penga  coronada  here 
 or  like  my  Laquala  palms  that  you  guys 
 see.  So,  this  palm  tree  is  one  that  I 
 will  be  wrapping  this  year.  I  think  it 
 also  look  pretty  in  the  garden  just  to 
 have  some  Christmas  lights  in  here.  But 
 what  you  want  to  make  sure  to  do  is  you 
 [music]  want  to  start  at  the  bottom,  of 
 course,  work  your  way  through  all  of  the 
 stems  that  you  can.  So  you're  going to 
 work  your  way  through  the  stems,  but 
 each  one  of  these  stems,  there's  a  heart 
 in  this  tree.  [music] 
 And  you  want  to  make  sure  that  you  get 
 into  the  heart.  So  into  the  main  trunk. 
 So  when  I'm  wrapping  the  Christmas 
 lights  through  here,  I'm  wrapping  them 
 through  that  center  stem.  [music] 
 This  one  here  would  be  right  here.  This 
 is  where  that  center  stem  would  be.  I 
 can  go  to  the  laquala  and  show  you  the 
 same  thing  with  the  laquala.  So  in 
 wrapping  this  guy  here,  I  would  make 
 sure  to  wrap  all  the  way  from  the  bottom 
 and  then  hit  all  [music]  of  this 
 interior  section  here.  This  is  the  area 
 that  protects  it.  This  is  the  heart  of 
 the  tree.  A  lot  of  people  concentrate 
 down  by  the  roots,  but  if  you  can  really 
 kind  of  get  in  here,  [music]  that's 
 going  to  protect  you  losing  any  of  these 
 fronds  during  a  frost.  And  then,  of 
 course,  finalize  it  by  wrapping  that 
 tree.  That's  going  to  hold  that  heat  in. 
 That's  going  to  give  you  [music]  like  an 
 internal  heater  for  any  of  your 
 specialty  palms  or  specialty  accents.  If 
 there's  anything  in  your  garden  that  is 
 just  kind  of  on  the  border  and  you're 
 like,  gosh,  I  just  don't  want  to  [music] 
 wait  a  whole  season  for  this  thing  to 
 bounce  back.  cover  it  and  add  some 
 Christmas  lights  to  it.  It's  that  time 
 of  the  year  anyway.  Why  not  add  a  little 
 dazzle?  All right,  you  guys.  For  the 
 fourth  tip,  fungicide.  Liquid  copper 
 fungicide  is  an  ideal  thing  to  do.  If 
 you've  covered,  uncovered,  it's  gotten 
 warm,  it's  gotten  cold,  it's  gotten 
 warm,  it's  gotten  cold,  your  plants,  no 
 doubt,  are  going  to  get  a  fungus  or  be 
 on  the  verge  of  getting  a  fungus.  So,  if 
 you  can  spray  everything  with  a  copper 
 fungicide,  then  you're  going  to  be  super 
 super  happy,  especially  your  palms.  And 
 if  you  do  your  palms,  again,  keep  in 
 mind  the  crown,  the  heart  of  the  palm  is 
 the  most  important  part.  So,  focus  in  on 
 getting  that  fungicide  right  into  the 
 crowns  and  the  hearts  of  the  tree 
 [music]  because  that's  going  to  make  all 
 the  difference.  You  spray  that  into  the 
 canopies.  That  is  the  time  of  the  year 
 that  that  kind  of  thing  happens.  And  if 
 you  can  nip  that  in  the  bud  right  away, 
 then  voila,  you  have  a  beautiful  garden 
 that  did  not  [music]  miss  a  beat.  And 
 for  the  last  tip,  this  is  the  time  of 
 the  year  we're  having  festivities  and 
 everybody  is  traveling.  This  is  a  great 
 time  to  touch  [music]  up  your  area  with 
 mulch.  Now,  it's  going  to  protect  your 
 plants.  It's  going  to  protect  that  root 
 system.  It's  also  going  to  help  kind  of 
 hold  that  moisture  in  the  ground.  So, 
 this  is  a  great  time  as  we  also  cut  back 
 on  water.  It's  going  to  be  a  great  time 
 to  kind  of  help  keep  [music]  things 
 hydrated  when  they  need  to  be.  So, 
 adding  a  nice  layer  of  mulch  is  an  ideal 
 thing  to  do  this  time  of  the  year.  And 
 if  you  have  a  garden  kind  of  like  my 
 garden  where  mulch  is  not  kind  of  an 
 option,  you  kind  of  see  I  kind  of  have  a 
 jungle  floor  of  plants.  So  I  don't 
 really  have  mulch  at  all  in  this 
 particular  section  of  my  garden.  I've 
 allowed  the  plants  to  kind  of  be  its  own 
 ground  cover  like  kind  of  like  nature 
 intends.  So  I  have  a  jungle  floor  and  a 
 lot  of  my  plants  I  don't  have  to  worry 
 about  covering  them  at  all.  even  if  the 
 temperatures  I  know  are  going  to  get 
 into  32,  there's  some  specific  things 
 that  I'll  cover  like  my  Laqualas  and 
 then  the  Coronado  that  I  mentioned,  but 
 overall  I  cover  very  little  of  it  um 
 because  of  this  microclimate  that's  been 
 created.  So,  those  of  you  guys  who  have 
 been,  you  know,  playing  with  the  idea  of 
 really  creating  a  condensed  jungle  in 
 your  back  space,  really  creating  some 
 serious  layers  and  levels  and  into  your 
 garden,  then  go  right  ahead  because 
 that's  just  a  lot  less  work  that  you're 
 going  to  have  to  do  when  [music]  the 
 cold  comes.  because  this  garden  I've  had 
 for  over  20  years.  It  doesn't  miss  a 
 beat,  you  know,  other  than  my  those 
 specific  things  that  probably  don't 
 belong  here  because  they're  kind  of  not 
 cold  tolerant  enough.  Those  are  the 
 things  that  I  give  a  little  extra 
 attention  to.  But  the  rest  of  these 
 gals,  [music]  they  just  kind  of,  you 
 know,  survive  out  here  during  all  of 
 those  temps  and  do  fabulously.  So,  if 
 you  guys  are  able  to  kind  of  create  your 
 microclimates  and  really  find  a 
 condensed  area  of  planting  on  some  of 
 those  tropicals  that  maybe  just  kind  of 
 on  the  verge  of  should  they  belong  or 
 should  they  not  belong  here.  Pile  them 
 nice  and  close  together.  Put  some  ground 
 plantings  like  burl  marks  or  sanchees  or 
 something  that's  really  going  to  fill  in 
 all  those  nooks  and  crannies  of  the 
 garden.  Become  your  ground  floor 
 ageneas.  All  all  of  those  things  that 
 really  kind  of  do  the  job  for  you.  Then 
 you've  got  your  natural  built-in  plant 
 blankets  and  then  you're  kind  of  pretty 
 golden  when  you  have  a  good  established 
 [music]  space  like  that  and  you  don't 
 have  to  worry  about  mulching.  All right, 
 you  guys.  So,  speaking  of  beautiful 
 gardens,  if  you  are  looking  for  some 
 assistance  in  creating  your  very  own 
 tropical  outdoor  space,  then  you  know 
 your  girl  here  is  a  landscape  designer 
 and  I'd  be  very  happy  to  meet  with  you 
 and  look  over  your  area.  We  have  three 
 different  services.  We  have  services 
 where  we  do  landscape  design  and 
 installation  for  our  local  areas  along 
 the  Treasure  Coast.  Then  we  also  have 
 just  design  services  only  for  like  a 
 master  plan  to  create  something  that  you 
 might  want  to  DIY  yourself  or  hand  off 
 to  a  landscape  contractor  in  your  area 
 to  have  installed.  We  offer  that  service 
 through  a  big  portion  of  Florida.  And 
 then  for  those  of  you  guys  who  just  have 
 key  areas  that  you're  kind  of  just 
 working  towards,  you're  doing  it 
 yourself  or  maybe  you're  getting  a 
 little  help  with  it,  but  you're  you're 
 kind  of  struggling  with  visualizing  what 
 to  do  for  the  [music]  space,  we  offer  a 
 1-hour  virtual  consultation  with  me  and 
 I  kind  of  walk  through  the  area  with 
 you.  We  pull  up  the  picture  on  the 
 screen.  It's  kind  of  a  Zoom  chat  between 
 [music]  the  two  of  us  and  I'll  put  that 
 on  my  landscape  program  and  in  real  time 
 kind  of  lay  out  some  ideas  that  might 
 work  well  [music]  in  your  particular 
 area.  So,  those  three  services  are 
 available  to  us.  We'll  put  all  of  our 
 contact  information  down  below  in  the 
 show  notes  as  well  as  the  links  to  to 
 some  of  the  things  that  we  talked  about 
 in  today's  video.  So,  that  way  you  guys 
 have  all  of  that  at  your  fingertips. 
 None  of  those  things  are  sponsored  in 
 today's  video.  This  is  something  that  we 
 just  have  on  our  Amazon  storefront.  And 
 if  you  guys  are  going  to  buy  them 
 anyway,  so  appreciate  you  buying  them 
 off  of  our  Amazon  storefront  because 
 that  does  really  help  us  earn  a  little 
 commission  off  of  that.  So,  thank  you  so 
 much.  And  if  you  guys  enjoyed  today's 
 video  and  you  are  in  the  holiday  spirit, 
 then  you  may  enjoy  last  week's  video, 
 which  was  a  spooky  garden  tour.  It  was 
 so  much  fun.

---

 Excuse  me,  mister. 
 Not  in  my  orchids.  Not  in  my  orchids. 
 Well,  good  morning,  true  gardeners. 
 Welcome  back  to  my  garden.  Today,  I  am 
 going  to  share  with  you  my  top  top  10 
 essential  tools  for  in  the  garden.  It's 
 the  time  of  the  year  where  I  love  being 
 out  here.  That  little  chill  in  the  air 
 is  just  so  perfect.  So,  I'm  going  to  be 
 doing  some  much  needed  trimming.  As  you 
 can  see,  this  is  so  embarrassing  how  big 
 these  guys  are.  I'm  going  to  trim  back. 
 But  I  thought  while  I  had  all  my  tools 
 out,  while  I  was  out  here,  I  would  share 
 with  you  guys  things  that  I  reach  for. 
 So,  every  March,  June,  October, 
 November,  that's  my  time  frame  of  a 
 really  good  harsh  cut  back.  And  there 
 are  always  certain  amount  of  tools  that 
 I  gravitate  towards.  And  I  thought 
 today's  video  would  be  really  helpful 
 because  I  have  bought  every  tool  on  the 
 market,  things  that  that  works.  This 
 will  be  a  helpful  video  to  a  lot  of  you 
 new  gardeners  out  there  who  are  trying 
 to  figure  out  what's  worth  it  because 
 there  are  some  expensive  tools  out  there 
 that  are  throwaway  tools  and  there  are 
 some  cheap  tools  that  are  pretty  good 
 tools  and  vice  versa.  But  before  we  jump 
 right  in,  I  noticed  that  my  analytics 
 said  that  only  about  50%  of  you  guys  who 
 watch  these  videos  are  subscribed.  If 
 this  is  kind  of  your  jam,  if  this  is 
 something  that  you  enjoy  watching, 
 seeing  these  garden  tours,  helpful  tips, 
 DIYs,  things  that  we  like  to  post  every 
 single  weekend,  then  please  subscribe 
 because  that  really  does  help  the 
 channel  grow  and  allows  YouTube  to  push 
 it  out  to  more  and  more  people. 
 >> Comment  true  gardener. 
 >> And  Bryce  says,  "Comment  true  gardener." 
 If  you  guys  are  true  gardeners  out 
 there.  So,  my  very  first  tool  that 
 you're  going  to  see  me  use  is  a  thing 
 that  I  grab  every  single  time.  These  are 
 my  Felco  tool.  Sorry. 
 >> My  very  favorite  tool  is  the  Felco  2. 
 Why  did  I  say 
 pruners? 
 >> Sorry  guys,  it  got  me  sick.  It  took  me 
 six  times  to  get  that. 
 >> Sorry  you  guys.  I've  had  a  lot  of  coffee 
 today,  so  it  took  me  like  three  times  to 
 say  that.  So,  um,  my  Felcos  are  my  very 
 favorite  tool  in  the  garden.  As  you  can 
 see,  they  are  pretty  messy,  but  I 
 absolutely  love  this  pruner.  This  is 
 kind  of  what  I  use  for  everything.  It's 
 kind  of  the  perfect  tool  for  like  more 
 of  your  soft  clip  plants.  It'll  handle 
 like  small  things  like  dead  heading  just 
 as  well  as  it  does  for  bigger  plants.  So 
 things  like  Brazilian  red  cloaks,  things 
 like  with  stems  like  this.  I  absolutely 
 love  this  tool.  I  will  keep  it  sometimes 
 I'll  just  keep  it  in  my  back  pocket  if  I 
 don't  have  my  tool  belt  on.  But  it  is 
 the  perfect  thing.  It  is  such  a  nice 
 fit.  I  don't  know  if  you  guys  can  see 
 here,  but  I  have  a  hard  time  with  the 
 size  of  my  hand  finding  something  that 
 fits  really  well.  And  this  has  just  got 
 the  perfect  spot  for  your  thumb  to  sit. 
 It's  super  sharp,  super  easy  to  work 
 with.  I  work  with  them  all  the  time 
 because  they're  kind  of a  universal 
 tool.  If  I  had  to  have  one  pruner,  this 
 would  be  the  one  that  I  would  have.  I've 
 tried  several  other  pruners  from  the 
 cheapies  to  the  way  more  expensive,  but 
 this  is  kind  of  a  nice 
 middle-of-the-line  tool.  It  does  such  a 
 fantastic  job  of  working  with  shrubbery 
 that's  more  delicate  to  shrubbery  that 
 is  kind  of  like  just  maybe  a  little 
 under  one  inch  stem  line.  So  for  my  next 
 tool,  it  is  very  similar  to  my  first 
 one.  However,  it  is  a  little  bit 
 tougher.  So  this  is  the  Felco  31.  So  my 
 Felco  31s  are  for  a  more  of  a  a  woody 
 cut  or  I  love  them  for  my  fronds.  Any  of 
 my  palm  frrons  that  need  a  little  bit 
 more  of  an  aggressive  cut.  This  guy  will 
 get  in  there  and  really  do  the  job  of 
 cutting  one  inch,  inch  and  a  half,  kind 
 of  really  getting  in  there  and  doing  a 
 heavy  trim.  And  of  course,  it's  not 
 going  to  cut  through  a  giant  limb,  but 
 it's  really  going  to  do  the  job  of 
 cutting  through  my  lime  tree,  my  woody 
 stems  where  I  don't  need  to  pull  out  big 
 loppers  for.  I  can  get  in  there  and  then 
 just  trim  up  my  palm  frron  limbs,  clia, 
 hardwoods,  that  kind  of  thing.  And 
 they're  fabulous  for  that.  And  I  don't 
 have  to  worry  about  carrying  around  a 
 bunch  of  loppers.  I  like  having 
 everything  kind  of  right  here  at  my 
 fingertips.  Which  leads  me  to  my  next 
 tool.  This  is  also  Felco.  I  promise  you 
 guys,  this  video  is  not  sponsored  by 
 Felco  at  all,  but  like  I  said,  I've 
 tried  a  lot  of  different  tips.  This 
 one's  a  very,  very  affordable  one.  My 
 Felco  saw  is  ideal.  I  love  this  guy. 
 Super,  super  light.  Has  a  nice  curved 
 handle.  This  has  a  nice  curved  blade 
 here.  And  sawing  on  it,  it's  almost  like 
 it  puts  pressure  on  itself  by  the  sawing 
 motion  here.  I  have  taken  down  some 
 pretty  significant  limbs  with  this  guy. 
 It  is  super  surprising.  I  like  that  it 
 has  this  easy  little  touch  here  and  then 
 you  can  just  fold  it.  It's  just  so  nice 
 and  safe.  It's  just  an  easy  tool  to 
 have.  The  next  tool  on  the  toolbell  list 
 is  got  to  be  it's  up  there  with  my 
 Felcos.  It's  one  of  those  things  that  I 
 absolutely  love.  It's  my  Hori  Hory 
 knife.  It  is  a  little  soil  knife.  This 
 guy  is  got  so  many  purposes.  It's  like 
 the  Swiss  Army  knife  of  the  garden.  This 
 thing  has  got  tons  and  tons  of  purposes 
 on  it.  I  love  it's  got  a  nice  clean 
 blade  here  with  a  serrated  blade  on  the 
 opposite  side.  So,  those  of  you  guys  who 
 know  and  have  seen  my  garden,  you  know  I 
 have  tons  of  agave.  And  agave  can  be 
 tricky  to  trim.  A  lot  of  people  do  them 
 with  loppers.  A  lot  of  people  do  them 
 with  little  trimmers.  I  love  doing  them 
 with  a  very  nice  sharp  serrated  edge. 
 So,  all  you  do  is  you  take  your  foot 
 down  and  you  slice.  And  that's  exactly 
 how  it  works.  If  it's  a  big  giant  limb, 
 then  obviously  you  have  to  do  a  little 
 bit  of  bread  cutting  there.  I  use  this 
 for  weeds  so  often.  If  I'm  trying  to  get 
 a  weed  out,  you  can  stick  this  right 
 into  the  ground,  cut  around  it,  pull 
 that  whole  root  ball  out.  So,  this  is  a 
 great  thing.  I've  used  it  for  clearing 
 away  mulch  to  plant  plants.  For  onegon 
 plants,  I  use  this  instead  of  a  a 
 shovel.  So,  this  is  so  easy  just  to  kind 
 of  get  in  there,  loosen  up  the  soil, 
 kind  of  get  that  out  of  there,  and  then 
 put  it  right  back  into  my  pouch.  I  love 
 this  tool.  It  comes  with  this  awesome 
 little  pouch.  I  put  it  right  here  on  my 
 tool  belt,  and  it's  just  always  here  to 
 stay.  It's  the  next  thing  that  I  have. 
 This  thing  is  has  been  through.  It's  so 
 dirty.  It  is  fabulous  to  have.  Now,  when 
 I  bought  it,  it  comes  with  I  think  four 
 of  these  pouches,  but  I  kind  of  use  the 
 same  tools  over  and  over  again,  as  I 
 mentioned,  and  this  is  all  I  really 
 need.  So,  I  have  the  two  pouches  that  I 
 like  to  use.  It's  perfect.  It's  nice.  It 
 It  doesn't  weigh  me  down.  Now,  I  had 
 some  big  long  ones.  I've  had  quite  a  few 
 other  tool  belts,  but  this  one  is  seems 
 to  be  the  one  that  really  works  for  me 
 because  I  put  one  to  one  side,  my  Hory 
 knife  here,  and  I  just  have  the  one  in 
 the  middle,  and  it  just  doesn't  restrict 
 any  motion,  and  it  holds  everything 
 very,  very  nice  and  sturdy.  It  has  a 
 couple  individual  pouches  within  the 
 pouch.  These  are  lens  wipers  for 
 glasses.  They're  little  alcohol  wipes. 
 If  I  run  across  one  of  my  plants  that 
 has  aphids  or  spidermitites  or  something 
 like  that,  then  I  can  use  those  to  kind 
 of  really  clean  them  off.  you're  walking 
 through  here  and  like  this  guy's  right 
 in  your  way  and  you're  like,  you  know 
 what,  you've  got  to  go,  buddy.  You're 
 encroaching  too  much  on  my  space.  So, 
 I'll  just  come  through  here.  I  won't 
 trim  the  whole  plant.  I'll  just  trim  as 
 needed.  So,  those  of  you  guys  who  are 
 like,  you  know,  how  do  I  trim  or  how 
 often  do  I  trim  or  whatnot,  you  can 
 really  just  anytime  you  see  something 
 you're  not  liking  the  direction  it's 
 taking,  you  just  kind  of  come  through 
 here  and  give  it  a  little  bit  of  a 
 haircut.  That's  what  I  do  most  of  the 
 time.  And  I  I  find  myself  really  staying 
 in  tune  with  my  garden  when  I  do  that. 
 And  what  I  like  about  everything  that  I 
 have  on  here  is  that  they're  really 
 small,  really  perfect  giftable  items  for 
 those  gardeners  that  are  family  members 
 or  friends  that  you  kind  of  want  to  get 
 something  special  for.  Perfect  small 
 wrapping.  All  of  them  are  on  Amazon.  I 
 will  stick  them  on  my  Amazon  storefront. 
 This  video  is  not  sponsored  by  any  of 
 these  companies  here,  but  if  you  want  to 
 help  your  girl  out  and  you're  going  to 
 buy  them  anyway,  then  please  buy  them  on 
 the  link  down  below.  I  do  get  a  small 
 commission  from  Amazon  for  any  purchases 
 that  are  made  from  my  Amazon  storefront. 
 All right,  for  the  next  item,  this  guy, 
 you  guys  are  going  to  love  this  one. 
 Such  an  easy  thing,  but  oh  my  goodness, 
 it  is  so  handy  to  have  in  the  garden. 
 This  is  a  debris  bag.  I've  had  a  couple 
 different  sizes.  This  is  my  favorite 
 size.  It's  the  45gallon.  Really  easy  to 
 tote  around.  So,  I'm  going  to  use  my 
 poor  Sanchezia  as  the  test  subject  here. 
 They  they  kind  of  need  a  good  trimming 
 anyway,  so  it'll  be  all  right,  you  guys. 
 This  guy  is  fantastic.  Now,  I  say  this 
 with  such  emphasis  because  Bryce  teases 
 me  every  time  I  pull  it  out.  He  goes, 
 "Mom,  it's  like  a  glorified  trash  bag." 
 And  that's  what  it  is.  But  if  you  guys 
 you  gardeners  out  there,  unlike  my  son 
 in  the  garden  who  are  working  working  at 
 the  trimming,  you  know  that  a  trash  bag 
 you  trim,  you  put  it  on  the  ground,  you 
 go  back,  you  pick  it  up.  It's  kind  of  a 
 pain  in  the  butt.  Having  one  that's  wide 
 open,  stands  alone,  has  a  hard  bottom  to 
 sit  on  the  ground  is  so  much  easier. 
 They  have  some  handles  on  the  sides.  You 
 kind  of  take  it  and  just  kind  of  pull  it 
 right  here  and  then  keep  it  along  with 
 you.  Put  it  down,  do  your  little 
 trimming  section,  throw  them  in  here. 
 And  what  I  love  about  this  particular 
 model  is  it  also  has  the  holes  in  the 
 bottom  because  I  rarely  finish 
 everything  in  one  day.  So,  I'll  come  out 
 here.  I'll  work  for  a  few  hours.  I  get 
 tired.  I  take  this,  roll  this  up,  put 
 this  zip  on  here.  So,  it  really  holds 
 quite  a  bit  of  material  in  here.  All  of 
 the  water  will  drain  out  of  here  if  we 
 get  a  rainstorm  or  irrigation  hits  in. 
 So,  you  can  really  kind  of  see  how  that 
 rolls.  And  then  when  I  don't  want  it, 
 when  I'm  done  with  it,  it  easily  easily 
 folds  right  back  up  flat.  Snaps  together 
 with  these  little  snaps  here.  And  then 
 boom,  it's  in  your  garage.  And  it's  like 
 a  flat  little  cylinder  like  this.  It's 
 just  so  ideal.  This  is  hard  canvas.  I've 
 put  in  some  pretty  good  stems  into  this. 
 A  lot  of  my  thorny  lime  tree  stems  have 
 gone  in  this  and  I've  had  no  trouble  at 
 all.  Bryce  calls  it  a  luxury.  I  call  it 
 a  must-have  in  the  garden  because  it  is 
 super  easy  to  work  with.  So,  I  hope  you 
 guys  try  that  one  out.  All  right,  from 
 my  next  tool  in  the  tool  kit  is  this  is 
 a  little  bit  bigger  one.  So,  if  you  guys 
 are  going  to  wrap  this  one,  you're  going 
 to  need  some  more  wrapping  paper.  This 
 is  the  DeWalt  blower.  Now,  I've  had  tons 
 of  blowers.  I  mean,  tons  of  like  I  got  a 
 graveyard  of  blowers.  I've  done  the  gas 
 power  blower.  My  guys  have  the  backpack 
 blower  when  they  blow  off  a  driveway, 
 but  when  they're  here  and  they're 
 working  with  me  in  my  yard,  we  we  pull 
 out  the  DeWalt  blower.  This  is  a  great 
 little  battery  packed  blower  with  a 
 punch.  So,  this  is  almost  as  good  as 
 those  big  gas  power  blowers.  And  I  love 
 it  because  if  you  have  DeWalt  products, 
 you  just  interchange  the  battery  with 
 everything.  So,  I  love  DeWalt.  I  think 
 it's  a  great  great  company,  great 
 product.  Again,  this  is  not  sponsored, 
 but  this  is  just  what  I  use.  For  full 
 throttle,  you  get  about  25  minutes  of 
 fulltime  blowing  on  this,  but  it  does 
 have  like  a  cruise  control  button  on 
 here.  So,  if  you're  only  going  halfway, 
 so  you  don't  have  to  hold  your  finger  on 
 this  here.  You  can  just  hold  the  little 
 cruise  control  knob  on  there  and  it'll 
 be  half  powered,  low  powered,  full 
 powered.  So,  that  way  you  can  get  the 
 most  battery  life.  And  when  you  have  it 
 half  powered,  feels  like  it  can  go 
 forever.  I  like  it  that  it  has  this 
 little  stand  on  there  so  you  can 
 literally  place  it  anywhere  and  it's  up 
 off  the  ground.  So  if  you're  kind  of  in 
 a  a  wet  area  or  if  it  rains  and  you  kind 
 of  you're  worried  about  water  flowing 
 back,  I  like  that  it's  up  off  the  ground 
 a  little  bit.  It's  just  a  nice  secured 
 feature.  So  one  other  bonus  feature  on 
 this  is  that  it  is  I  think  it's  girl 
 approved.  I  mean  this  guy  is  not  not 
 heavy  at  all.  So  it  is  kind  of  nice  and 
 light  and  I  have  used  a  lot  of  blowers 
 and  they  really  do  have  a  lot  of  weight 
 to  them.  But  it  has  a  really  good  sense 
 of  balance.  So,  you're  not  doing  this 
 the  whole  time  that  you're  blowing. 
 You're  really  just  targeting  your  areas 
 that  you  want.  It's  nice  and  light  and 
 it's  not  super  loud.  Now,  I've  got  some 
 blowers  that  are  super  loud.  I'm  going 
 to  go  ahead  and  put  this  on  so  you  guys 
 can  hear  it,  but  it  is  kind  of 
 overall  as  far  as  blowers  go,  check  out 
 the  DeWalts  because  they're  a  really 
 fantastic  product  to  have  on  hand  and 
 just  a  nice  rechargeable  battery.  Now,  I 
 will  tell  you  when  you  purchase  it 
 itself,  the  battery  does  not  come  with 
 it.  So,  you'll  have  to  buy  the  battery 
 separate,  but  again,  it  goes  with  so 
 many  other  products,  including  the  one 
 I'm  going  to  show  you  next.  So,  for  the 
 next  essential  tools  would  be  sprayers. 
 Now,  these  are  two  different  types  of 
 sprayers.  My  DeWalt  sprayer  is  for 
 weeds.  I  love  just  the  easy  use  of  it. 
 Um,  the  sprayer  never  gets  clogged.  I 
 never  have  a  problem  with  this,  and  I've 
 had  so  many  of  these  different 
 varieties.  The  DeWalt,  again,  is  just  my 
 favorite.  It  has  a  nice  little  filter  in 
 here.  It's  just  your  two  gallon  pump 
 sprayer.  Nice  and  light.  It's  perfect 
 for  just  those  jobs  that  you  need.  You 
 don't  need  anything  super  large  for 
 that.  But  I  think  the  DeWalt  sprayer 
 overall  has  been  my  favorite.  And  then 
 it  has  like  a  nice  really  sturdy  bottom. 
 When  you  have  a  product  in  here,  the 
 last  thing  you  want  to  worry  about  is 
 falling  and  constantly  get  those  that 
 fall  down.  This  has  a  nice  kind  of 
 sturdy  base  to  it.  And  so  I  kind  of  can 
 drop  it  and  not  worry  about  it.  Overall, 
 I've  had  the  sprayer  for  a  few  years  and 
 I  absolutely  love  it.  See  no  need  to 
 kind  of  change  for  my  weed  spraying. 
 However,  for  a  bigger  spraying  job,  this 
 is  for  my  pesticides.  This  is  a 
 fantastic  sprayer.  It  is  a  roll  sprayer, 
 and  you  can  obviously  lift  it,  too.  They 
 have  the  backpack  option,  so  you  can  use 
 it  that  way.  But  I  do  I  like  the  roll 
 the  pool  behinds.  I  think  that  they're 
 just  so  easy  to  work  with.  This  nozzle 
 fits  right  on  this  side  so  well,  and  it 
 comes  with  several  different  options. 
 So,  you  have  a  wide  spray,  a  stream.  You 
 have  so  much  to  work  with  when  it  comes 
 here.  It's  a  little  battery  operated 
 sprayer.  The  charge  lasts  forever.  If  I 
 have  to  charge  it,  I  would  say  about 
 every  five  or  six  times  that  I  use  it,  I 
 have  to  charge  it.  So,  it  has  got  a  very 
 long  life  on  it.  It  has  a  little  cup 
 filter  in  here,  so  when  you  put  your 
 product  in  here,  you  don't  have  to  worry 
 about  something  getting  in  here  and 
 clogging  up  the  sprayer.  And  it  has  an 
 extra  one  here  for  the  water.  So,  I  like 
 that  those  two  areas  are  separated,  so 
 you're  not  kind  of  splashing  yourself 
 with  where  the  product  goes  versus  where 
 your  water  goes.  It  has  got  a  fantastic 
 stream.  I  walk  behind  and  literally  I 
 walk  behind,  pull  this  guy  behind  and  it 
 sprays  all  into  my  trees.  This  is 
 perfect  for  pesticides.  This  is  kind  of 
 where  all  the  charging  cables  are.  So,  I 
 just  kind  of  keep  everything  together. 
 Charges  really,  really  quickly.  This  is 
 where  your  on  andoff  switch  here  is.  I 
 don't  know if  you  guys  can  hear  it,  but 
 it  starts  pumping  right  up  to  the  spout. 
 But  overall,  this  is  a  very  powerful 
 little  tool.  It's  a  perfect  thing  to  get 
 rid  of  those  bugs  that  will  be 
 threatening  us  at  dinner.  for  our  ninth 
 tool  in  the  garden.  This  is  a  fun  mama 
 jama.  I  love  this  is  my  Ryobi  augur. 
 Now,  this  guy  really  does  the  trick. 
 Comes  with  a  couple  interchangeable 
 bits.  I  think  three,  six,  and  I  think  it 
 even  comes  with  a  little  larger  bit  and 
 oh,  and  a  1-in  bit.  But  overall,  you  can 
 just  really  play  in  the  dirt  with  this 
 guy.  Now,  I  am  probably  the  last  one  to 
 pull  out  a  shovel.  I  don't  like  the 
 prying  and  the  pulling  and  I  know  what 
 kind  of  landscaper  am  I?  But  I  I  do  like 
 pulling  out  this  augur.  This  is  about  13 
 pounds.  So,  it's  kind  of  nice  and  light. 
 Just  a  really  great  product  and  kind  of 
 has  its  own  bit  of  weight  to  it.  So, 
 once  you  put  it  in  the  ground,  you  don't 
 need  to  push  on  it.  It  really  kind  of 
 just  the  weight  alone.  Hit  the  button 
 and  it  goes  to  digging  right  into  the 
 ground.  Now,  don't  worry.  I  have  it  on 
 neutral  right  here.  So,  no matter  what 
 you  do  with  the  button,  it's  in  a  lock. 
 It  has  a  forward  and  a  reverse.  So  when 
 we  go  to  put  this  into  the  ground, 
 obviously  we're  going  to  go  forward  and 
 instead  of  having  to  pull  out  cuz  I  had 
 an  augur  that  you  push  it  in.  It  did  had 
 not  have  a  reverse.  So  you  had  to  pull 
 it  out  and  that  was  no  joke.  That  was 
 like  prying  like  you  would  with  a 
 shovel.  So  I  that  was  a  selling  feature 
 for  me.  So  once  I  saw  that  it  had  a 
 reverse,  I'm  like,  "Okay,  I'm  in."  So 
 this  has  a  great  option.  So  it  goes  nice 
 and  through  the  roots.  This  is  um  I 
 can't  say  these  are  super  sharp.  It's 
 not  a  very  dangerous  tool.  It  will  cut 
 through  roots,  of  course.  It's  not  going 
 to  be  your  gas  operated  augur.  They're 
 intense  and  to  the  point  where  they 
 probably  shouldn't  be.  Some  of  those 
 augers  when  you  put  them  in  the  ground, 
 they  will  cut  through  a  route,  but 
 they're  also  going  to  take  you  with  it. 
 So,  cuz  I  have  done  it.  I  put  an  augur 
 in  the  ground  and  it  it  takes  you  and 
 jerks  you  like  this  or  like  that.  This 
 guy  won't  do  that.  You're  going to  feel 
 a  little  tension  in  the  handrails,  but 
 it's  going  to  stop  when  it  gets  to  a 
 point.  It's  easy  enough  to  tote  around 
 when  you  need  to  tote  from  plant  to 
 plant  in  the  beds,  but  also  tough  enough 
 to  get  through  some  of  those  tough 
 spots.  It  comes  with  the  battery  here. 
 You  do  have  to  charge  it  pretty 
 frequently.  I  feel  like  every  time  I  use 
 it,  I  do  need  to  charge  it.  But  overall, 
 I,  you  know,  I  just  had  really  good  luck 
 with  it.  And  I  I  feel  like  it's  really 
 efficient  in  the  garden  because  if  I'm 
 planting  something  like  a  bunch  of 
 Lantanas,  I  can  go  through  there  and  put 
 this  in  rows  and  stagger  everything  out 
 in  like  literally  10  15  minutes.  Where 
 if  I  did  that  with  a  shovel,  I'm  kind  of 
 doing  them  almost  two  or  three  at  a 
 time.  But  with  these,  I  can  do  50  at  a 
 time  and  I'm  out  of  there.  I  pulled  this 
 out  way  more  than  I  thought  I  would.  I 
 originally  bought  the  handheld  one,  but 
 I  don't know  if  you  guys  are  like  me,  my 
 wrists  are  not  super  strong  and  you 
 know,  just  if  unless  you're  digging  in 
 some  really  nice  kind  of  garden  soil,  it 
 was  just  too  much.  It  torqued  it  too 
 much.  I  like  this  two  handheld  option. 
 And  then  now  we'll  move  on  to  my  final 
 and  probably  the  most  practical  tool 
 that  every  gardener  should  have  in  their 
 garden.  It's  over  here  on  the  side. 
 Excuse  us,  Red. 
 So,  for  my  final  tool  is  my  handy  dandy, 
 heavily  used  wheelbarrow.  Now,  this  is  a 
 twowheel  wheelbarrel,  and  it  sits  nice 
 and  level.  I  like  that  it's  the  hard 
 plastic,  the  Rubbermaid  variety.  So  easy 
 to  work  with.  I  like  that  this  is  big 
 and  bulky  like  this  because  I've  got  to 
 go  through  pavers  on  some  end,  so  it's 
 nice  smooth  sailing,  and  then  rock  on 
 the  other.  And  those  hard  wheels  just 
 work  right  over  top  of  both  like 
 nobody's  business.  So,  I  use  this  for 
 just  pretty  much  everything.  Everybody 
 needs  a  wheelbarrow.  Whether  you're 
 bringing  plants  to  your  back  from  your 
 back  of  your  truck  like  I  am  or  a  soil, 
 mulch.  This  is  just  an  ideal  thing.  This 
 is  the  perfect  size  for  me  because  I 
 don't  have  a  lot  of  space  back  there.  I 
 had  a  giant  I've  had  several  different 
 wheelbarls,  but  they're  just  so  big  and 
 so  bulky  or  they  tip  too  easy.  I  like 
 that  this  is  kind  of  a  secured  one.  You 
 know,  I  like  things  really  easy  in  the 
 garden.  So,  so  although  this  is  kind  of 
 a,  you  know,  a  cheapy  kind  of  overall, 
 you  know,  easy  to  use  wool  barrel,  it's 
 the  perfect  thing.  I  found  it  on  Amazon 
 100  years  ago.  I  will  put  the  link  in 
 the  description,  but  it  is  a  great  one 
 to  use.  And  when  this  one  finally  wears 
 out,  I'm  going  to  get  another  one 
 exactly  like  it.  All right,  you  guys. 
 So,  that  does  it.  Those  are  the  tools 
 that  make  the  magic  happen.  That's  kind 
 of  what  helps  create  this  garden  and 
 keeps  it  all  nice  and  pristine.  So  you 
 guys,  if  you  are  looking  for  some  great 
 tools,  some  great  ideas  out  there  to 
 give  to  some  of  your  gardening  friends 
 or  family.  These  are  going  to  be  on  my 
 list.  I  will  be  sure  to  put  them  in  the 
 description  down  below  under  my 
 essential  gardening  tools.  There'll  be 
 an  Amazon  link  that  has  everything  that 
 we  just  reviewed  in  today's  video.  And 
 you  guys,  let  me  know  if  there's  like  a 
 tool  that  is  just  like  a  non-negotiable 
 in  your  garden  that  please  stick  in  the 
 comments  down  below  because,  you  know,  I 
 feel  like  I've  been  through  them  all, 
 but  I'm  telling  you,  there's  always  some 
 tool  out  there  that  like,  hm,  how  is 
 that  going  to  work?  All right,  you  guys. 
 So,  I  hope  you  enjoyed  today's  video.  If 
 you  did,  check  out  last  week's  video.  It 
 is  one  of  our  Halloween  haunted  videos 
 that  we  did  a  beautiful  little  garden 
 tour  in  Palm  Bay,  Florida.  Thank  you  so 
 much.  I  will  see  you  next  weekend.  Take 
 care.

---

 Hello  gardeners.  Today  we  are  going  to 
 tour  this  beautiful  tropical  [music] 
 front  yard.  This  is  what  I  would 
 consider  an  average  front  yard  size.  And 
 so  I  thought  this  might  be  really  great 
 to  take  you  guys  along.  If  this  is  a 
 look  that  you  like,  you  can  easily 
 replicate  it.  [music]  This  yard  has  like 
 three  distinct  different  islands  to  it. 
 So,  I  want  to  share  with  you  each  one 
 and  kind  of  the  reason  why  we  did  that, 
 just  to  kind  of  highlight  certain 
 sections  [music]  of  the  yard.  I  think 
 it's  really  going  to  appeal  to  a  lot  of 
 you  guys  because  there  are  so  many  homes 
 that  have  a  similar  setup  to  [music] 
 this  space.  So,  the  first  area  that 
 we're  going  to  look  at  is  this  front 
 yard  section  right  along  the  foundation 
 of  the  house.  So,  this  is  left  side  of 
 the  driveway,  but  I  absolutely  love  the 
 way  this  turned  out.  We  planted 
 everything  a  couple  months  ago.  Things 
 are  now  starting  to  fluff  out  and  grow 
 in.  Not  quite  there  yet,  but  definitely 
 I  want  to  bring  you  along  early  enough 
 so  you  can  [music]  see  things  as  they're 
 starting  to  connect,  but  you  really  kind 
 of  get  to  see  the  individual  spaces 
 really,  really  well.  The  main  trees,  the 
 focal  trees  that  are  within  this  garden 
 are  the  Sylvester  palm  that  was  an 
 existing  Sylvester  that  we  worked  with 
 in  the  space.  [music] 
 There  was  an  existing  uh  Christmas  palm 
 that  was  here.  And  then  we  added  in  a 
 kiopsis  palm  for  this  corner  over  here. 
 And  then  starting  with  the  backdrop  of 
 the  bed,  you  guys  can  see  the  Brazilian 
 red  cloaks.  We  have  three  15gallon 
 Brazilian  red  cloaks  as  the  backdrop. 
 They're  just  starting  their  blooming 
 cycle.  They're  going  to  thicken  up,  fill 
 out,  and  become  an  8ft  wall  right  there, 
 which  is  ideal  because  if  you  guys  are 
 seeing  what  we're  seeing,  what  a  direct 
 viewpoint  is  to  this  space  is  the 
 twotory  right  behind  you  there.  So 
 having  these  guys  at  8  nt  tall  as  a  kind 
 of  a  thick  dense  wall  of  beautiful  pink 
 foliage  or  beautiful  pink  blooms  is 
 going  to  be  absolutely  a  stunner  when 
 you  pull  up  to  the  driveway.  So  that  is 
 our  [music]  anchor  point  right  there.  So 
 while  they're  young,  they're  going  to 
 have  a  little  bit  of  legggininess  to 
 them.  They  will  eventually  fill  out,  but 
 you'll  notice  that's  why  I  love  to  put 
 skirt  plantings.  [music]  Anytime  I  know 
 that  we're  going  to  have  a  lapse  of  time 
 with  some  legggininess  at  the  base,  you 
 want  something  to  the  front  of  them. 
 That's  going  to  give  you  the  room  to 
 really  kind  of  layer  [music]  to  the 
 front.  Got  a  sea  of  jaba  whites  and  I've 
 just  got  a  kind  of  a  staggered  formation 
 of  those  guys.  Those  are  planted  twoft 
 [music]  to  the  center  of  each  plant  so 
 that  way  they  fully  connect.  I  just  kind 
 of  wanted  a  nice  bit  of  softness,  a  nice 
 bit  of  fluffiness  underneath  this  here. 
 And  then  we  brought  in  a  much  lower  tier 
 down  below  with  the  dwarf  [music] 
 pentas.  So,  these  dwarf  pentas  are  going 
 to  wrap  around  the  Americana  agave  and 
 really  just  kind  of  anchor  this  corner, 
 give  it  a  little  bit  of  punch,  a  little 
 bit  of  interest.  [music]  And  then  right 
 here,  our  next  accent  features  are  going 
 to  be  something  that  I  kind  of  wanted  to 
 have  a  little  impact  on  the  cleanness  of 
 that  wall.  So,  we've  got  a  lady  palm 
 here.  So,  they're  going  to  collect  and 
 kind  of  be  a  nice  six  foot  height  right 
 here.  Now,  my  clients  are  going  to  keep 
 those.  You  guys,  I  if  you  had  raphus 
 palms  or  lady  palms  in  the  past,  you 
 know  what  they'll  naturally  do  is 
 they'll  naturally  spread.  They  kind  of 
 clump  at  the  base  here,  open  up,  and 
 then  they'll  provide  little  pups  at  the 
 bottom.  If  you  want  to  keep  those  under 
 control,  the  best  thing  to  do  is  about 
 every  3  to  four  months,  just  go  in  and 
 remove  any  of  those  lower  clumping.  That 
 way,  it's  manageable  to  keep  it  at  a 
 nice  clumping,  more  like  a  bouquet  style 
 versus  getting  wider  and  wider  and 
 wider.  But  that  starts  from  the 
 beginning.  That  starts  from,  you  know, 
 the  first  few  months  in.  If  you  see  any, 
 kind  of  clip  it,  clip  it.  And  that  way 
 it  forces  [music]  that  tree  to  stay  kind 
 of  compact  and  small.  And  that  is 
 definitely  doable.  It's  [music] 
 definitely  worth  having  because  what  an 
 interesting  leaf  those  guys  offer. 
 They're  just  so  cool  [music]  because  we 
 have  so  much  green  and  light  colorations 
 on  the  sides.  The  center  area  is  going 
 to  give  you  a  real  dark  contrast  against 
 [music]  the  blue  of  the  house.  I  love 
 the  love  the  antiloo  collections  right 
 there.  You  [music]  guys  know  what  I  like 
 to  do  with  antiloo's  I'll  connect  them 
 into  one  hole.  So  we'll  [music]  have 
 like  two  or  three  antiloos  in  one  hole 
 and  that  way  they  push  [music]  against 
 each  other  and  become  a  nice  thick 
 grouping  versus  an  individual  plant  like 
 this.  We  kind  of  want  to  take,  you 
 [music]  know,  two  or  three  depending  on 
 the  size  of  them,  put  them  together,  dig 
 a  much  larger  hole  and  plant  them  as 
 one.  And  then  they'll  push  against  each 
 other  again  giving  you  that  bouquet  kind 
 of  feel  where  they  really  widen  out  nice 
 and  chunky.  So,  they're  going to  do  that 
 and  really  fill  in  that  gap  back  there 
 on  [music]  either  side.  I  love  these 
 burl  marks.  Oh  my  gosh,  the  shiny  leaves 
 of  these  little  plants.  Now,  these  guys, 
 you  can  easily  keep  them  around  two, 
 three  foot  tall.  They're  a  nice  slow 
 grower.  They  really  will  kind  of  drift 
 where  you  want  them  to  go,  and  I  just 
 kind  of  love  the  way  that  they  kind  of 
 give  you  a  nice  anchor  point.  An 
 alternative  to  burl  marks  if  you  guys 
 want  something  that's  a  little  bit  more 
 controlled,  a  little  bit  more  compact 
 would  be  Xanadoo.  Dwarf  Xanadoo  is  an 
 ideal  little  kind  of  ground  space.  Both 
 of  them  require  medium  light  to  filter 
 light  to  full  [music]  shade.  So  those 
 are  if  you  get  into  the  sun,  they  can 
 really  burn  on  those.  But  if  that's  your 
 environment,  then  those  are  two  great 
 choices.  And  then  to  brighten  it  up 
 against  cuz  we  had  the  Java  whites  on 
 the  corner.  So  we  want  now  we  went  to 
 dark  green  and  the  dark  green  of  the 
 rafus.  Now  to  bring  a  little  bit  of 
 brightness  and  to  highlight  these 
 antiloos,  we've  [music]  got  song  of 
 India  at  the  bottom.  You  guys,  these 
 Song  of  India  are  easy  to  keep  chunky. 
 All  you  do  is  just  take  off  that  little 
 nip,  [music]  that  little  top.  That  way, 
 it  forces  the  plant  to  go  and  connect 
 together  and  not  shoot  straight  up.  This 
 plant  can  be  this  size  its  whole  life  if 
 you  nip  [music]  it.  I  think  that's  a 
 misconception.  A  lot  of  people  think 
 they  can  get  they  have  to  get  real 
 large,  and  they  can,  [music]  but  they 
 can  easily  be  kept  in  a  kind  of  a  bushy 
 style.  So  you  can  put  four  or  five 
 together  in  one  bush  and  just  clip  those 
 tops  off.  So  that  way  they  knit  and 
 connect  together  because  they're  they're 
 looking  for  a  supporting  partner  there. 
 So  I  mean  aren't  we  all  that  that  way 
 they  really  become  a  nice  full  little 
 cluster  and  the  brightness  [music]  they 
 give  you  in  a  darker  space  is  ideal. 
 Song  of  India  are  versatile.  They  can 
 live  in  shade.  They  can  live  in  filtered 
 light.  They  can  live  in  full  sun.  So  you 
 know  when  you  have a  plant  like  that  you 
 kind  of  want  to  find  good  uses  for  it. 
 So  I  use  it  to  brighten  up  a  dark  spot. 
 So  we  have  the  burl  marks  next  to  it,  a 
 bright  spot  here,  and  then  really  give 
 you  a  nice  dark  hit  with  the  antiloo's 
 there,  and  then  a  nice  kind  of 
 complimentary  color  with  the  dwarf 
 pentas.  And  when  I  use  pentas,  I  kind  of 
 used  to  use  them  in  dabs.  I  don't 
 usually  use  big  sweeps  of  them.  I  like 
 like  a  little  clustering  of  five  or  six 
 in  a  group,  then  I  break  it  with  a 
 another  non-blooming  plant  so  we  always 
 get  color.  These  pentas  will  bloom  all 
 spring,  [music]  all  summer,  and 
 apparently  in  the  fall.  So,  they  do 
 bloom  quite  quite  [music]  often.  The 
 thing  with  pentas  that  do  get  missed  is 
 that  everybody  thinks  because  they're 
 blooming  and  they're  gorgeous  that 
 [music]  you  don't  trim  them.  But  you  do 
 absolutely  trim  these  plants.  And  when 
 you  trim  them,  you  give  them  a  hard  cut 
 [music]  back.  So,  you're  going  to  want 
 to  take  these  guys.  See,  this  size  is 
 perfect.  This  guy's  kind  of  getting  a 
 little  bit  wild  and  a  little  bit  crazy. 
 So,  in  the  next  month,  I  would  say  I 
 would  come  in  and  trim  them  back  down  to 
 a  little  smaller  [music]  than  this  size 
 here.  So,  I  take  all  the  tops  of  them 
 off.  And  anytime  you  trim  a  plant, 
 especially  a  blooming  plant,  you  kind  of 
 want  to  go  mushroom  style.  Leave  a 
 little  bit  of  height  in  the  middle  and 
 then  round  it  off  at  the  bottom.  So 
 that's  exactly  what  you  would  do  here. 
 You  would  trim  it  a  little  tight  on  the 
 sides,  leave  it  a  little  bit  taller  in 
 the  middle.  That  way  when  it  mounds  out, 
 it  kind  of  mounds  out  to  that  that  type 
 of  that  type  of  look.  And  then  you've 
 got  a  gorgeous  grouping.  I  want  these  to 
 fully  connect.  So  this  is  one  solid 
 [music]  swath.  That  way  there's  no  mulch 
 seen  at  all  as  they  grow  in.  This  is 
 going  to  be  the  ground  cover  of  the 
 plants.  And  in  general,  if  you  notice  in 
 my  designs,  that's  exactly  what  I  like 
 to  do  with  all  my  plants  where  mulch  is 
 kind  of  only  seen  along  the  edges  or 
 along  the  rear  side  of  the  bed.  That 
 way,  everything  is  kind  of  a  sea  of  this 
 and  then  it  breaks  and  then  a  sea  of 
 this  and  then  it  breaks.  So,  that's  kind 
 of  the  goal  there.  And  then  you  guys,  we 
 have  a  rinse  and  repeat  pattern.  We've 
 got  the  burl  marks  here  with  the  song  of 
 India  and  then  we're  hitting  it  again 
 with  the  Java  white  copper  leaf.  said 
 the  java  white  copper  leaves.  We  have  a 
 sea  of  those,  a  cluster  here  with  a 
 break  of  the  false  agave  and  this  cool 
 coina  boulder.  And  then  again,  we've  got 
 a  little  touch  of  the  java  whites  on  the 
 corner  with  a  [music]  dark  sea  of  this 
 red  copper  leaf.  That's  the  Louisiana 
 red  copper  leaf.  I  get  this  question  a 
 lot.  Instead  of  using  the  same  type 
 [music]  of  plants  over  and  over  again, 
 sometimes  it's  just  best  to  use  the  same 
 variations  [music]  of  color.  So  that's 
 what  you're  going  to  see  here.  So,  back 
 to  the  back  here.  I  could  have  used 
 antiloo  like  I  have  over  there,  but  I 
 needed  something  that  has  a  dark 
 contrasting  color  [music]  that  simulates 
 that  type  of  look  or  color  that  the 
 antiloo  offers.  So,  the  copper  leaves  to 
 the  back  do  that.  [music]  Then,  we've 
 got  a  bright  tone  because  if  you  got 
 dark,  you  want  to  bring  in  something 
 bright.  So,  we  got  the  brightness  of  the 
 Java  whites  on  the  corner  and  then  of 
 [music]  course  the  dark  greens  here.  And 
 then  we've  got  bright  variegation  in  the 
 song  of  India  like  we  have  in  the  Java 
 whites.  Then  we  have  the  pink  tones  that 
 complement  the  antiloo.  So  you  kind  of 
 see  how  we  go  from  light,  [music]  dark, 
 light,  dark,  and  then  it  just  kind  of  a 
 rinse  and  repeat.  What  a  great  companion 
 for  these  pentas  are  the  Brazilian  red 
 cloaks  with  their  pink  tones.  So,  it's 
 like  almost  every  plant  in  here  has  a 
 color  partner,  you  know?  So,  that  way 
 when  you  look  at  the  whole  bed,  it 
 doesn't  feel  like  you  have  all  the  same 
 plants  in  one  bed,  but  you  have  the  same 
 plant  colorations.  [music] 
 Everything  looks  like  it  real  rhyme, 
 real  reason,  and  and  it  really  helps  a 
 bed  come  together  and  it  makes  it  look 
 more  interesting  because  they  tie 
 together  cuz  the  colors  or  the  leaf 
 patterns  pull  in  together.  Gosh,  I  hope 
 that  makes  sense.  Hey,  you  guys,  I'm 
 going  to  pop  in  here  really  quick.  If 
 you're  liking  what  you're  seeing  so  far, 
 then  this  is  a  project  that  we  installed 
 and  designed.  So,  if  you're  looking  to 
 have  something  like  this  done  for 
 yourself,  [music] 
 please  reach  out  to  us.  Our  contact 
 information  is  down  below.  We  have  a 
 landscape  design  [music]  and  an 
 installation  service  available  as  well 
 as  virtual  consults  where  I  can  share 
 and  [music]  discuss  with  you  different 
 spaces  throughout  your  garden.  Most  of 
 that  is  done  throughout  the  state  of 
 Florida.  Reach  out  to  Marissa,  [music] 
 my  daughter-in-law,  who  will  give  you 
 all  of  our  inside  information  and  see  if 
 we  would  be  a  good  fit  for  you.  Also, 
 our  book  is  out  [music]  and  finished. 
 It's  on  Amazon,  was  released  last  week. 
 We  are  so,  so  proud  of  it.  It  lists  a 
 lot  of the  plants  and  trees  that  you  see 
 in  all  of  our  videos  that  we  share, 
 [music]  the  tough  Florida  plants,  tried 
 and  true,  and  some  details  and 
 informations  about  it.  It's  like  your 
 little  secret  weapon  in  the  garden. 
 It'll  [music]  be  in  the  first  link  in 
 the  description  down  below  and  also 
 pinned  comment.  Thank  you  guys  so  much 
 for  your  support.  I  truly  hope  you  enjoy 
 these  videos.  Let's  get  back  into  this 
 one.  [music]  All  right.  So,  those  of  you 
 guys  who  are  thinking  about  creating  a 
 front  yard  island,  so  maybe  a  little  bit 
 of  buffering  from  [music]  your  space  and 
 the  in  the  roadway,  then  I  think  you're 
 going  to  like  this  section  because  it's 
 exactly  what  we  did  here.  We  have  a 
 Kucia  hedge  as  our  backdrop.  That's 
 going  to  be  a  nice  four  to  5ft  wall  for 
 my  clients.  That's  going  to  kind  of  give 
 a  little  bit  of  barrier,  a  little bit  of 
 privacy,  but  it's  also  going  to  make 
 this  front  yard  island  pop  with  color. 
 So  when  you  have  a  green  screen  back 
 there,  it's  going  to  take  all  the  colors 
 and  make  them  just  stand  out  so  much 
 more.  Our  main  trees  in  this  particular 
 bed  are  going  to  be  the  double  foxtail, 
 the  pygmy  8  palm,  the  dune  palm,  and 
 then  they  had  some  existing  oaks  in  this 
 space.  And  the  oaks  are  kind  of  the 
 purpose  or  the  reason  why  we  decided  to 
 keep  [music]  this  bed  here.  They  had 
 oaks  with  some  roots,  and  it  was  kind  of 
 already  established  here.  So  I  said, 
 well,  let's  just  work  with  it.  let's 
 kind  of  work  with  that  and  create  a 
 whole  island  [music]  and  kind  of  give 
 those  oaks  some  balance.  So  that's 
 exactly  what  we  did.  So  we  added  some 
 more  height  to  this  side  of  it  to  kind 
 of  give  [music]  this  whole  front  island 
 a  purpose  with  the  oak  trees.  So  what  we 
 have  here  is  our  main  centerpiece  area 
 is  the  dune  palm.  This  bed  was  a  little 
 bit  tricky  with  the  oak  trees  kind  of 
 being  off  center  of  each  other.  They 
 kind  of  threw  off  the  bed  shape.  So  we 
 had  to  kind  of  create  our  own  center, 
 our  own  bit  of  weight  here.  [music]  So 
 what  we  did  is  we  we  chose  the  dune  palm 
 and  then  tiered  it  down  to  another 
 accent  with  this  imperialis  [music] 
 bmilad  and  then  tied  in  some  boulders 
 just  to  give  us  a  different  texture  in 
 [music]  the  space.  When  you  can't  go 
 symmetrical,  you  want  to  make  sure  that 
 you  just  can  balance  it  out  with  weight. 
 So  [music]  because  we  have  two  large 
 trees  on  this  side,  I  didn't  want  to  do 
 super  large  trees  on  this  side,  but  I 
 know  we  needed  some  additional  weight. 
 So,  the  pygmy  8  palm  with  its  chunky  and 
 fatness  and  what  that's  going  to  create 
 over  time  is  going  to  offer  balance  and 
 weight  there.  Then  we've  got  the  double 
 foxtail  palm  here.  Then  we've  got 
 [music]  the  two  upright  accents  here  and 
 then  of  course  the  boulders  tucked  in  so 
 that  way  it  feels  like  it  has  a  little 
 bit  a  little  bit  more  ump  on  this  side 
 of  the  bed  to  match  that  side  of  the 
 bed.  And  then  on  both  sides  we  balanced 
 it  out  with  big  clusters  of  Sanchezia.  I 
 have  a  grouping  there  and  a  grouping 
 here.  I  love  the  pop  of  color  in  these 
 leaves.  You  see  them  a  little  bit  now, 
 but  over  time  as  the  Kucia  grow  in, 
 you're  really  going  to  see  that 
 variegation  in  [music]  color.  So,  you 
 guys  may  be  wondering  why  the  ruby  reds 
 are  in  prison  here.  They're  they're 
 completely  in  timeout  over  here  in  these 
 cages.  [music]  These  are  rabbit  cages. 
 Most  of  you  guys  probably  are  familiar 
 with  how  that  works.  Young  plantings, 
 tender  plantings  like  ruby  reds,  like 
 blew  my  [music]  minds,  like  so  many 
 other  tender  ground  covers  that  are  low 
 to  the  ground.  If  you  have  rabbits  that 
 live  in  the  area,  they  can  nibble  and 
 really  kind  of  get  a  hold  of  those 
 smaller  [music]  plants.  What  they  do 
 need  ruby  reds  need  to  be  trimmed 
 several  times  to  get  to  that  [music] 
 hardened  stem  and  then  the  rabbits 
 really  kind  of  lose  interest  in  them. 
 But  it  does  take  some  time  for  that  to 
 happen.  So  you  can  either  use  a 
 pesticide  treatment  or  do  what  my 
 clients  are  doing  here,  which  is  caging 
 the  ruby  reds.  some  of  the  other  plants 
 that  we  have  within  this  bed.  We've  got 
 some  pie  crust  croins  [music]  to  the 
 back  there  and  then  a  little  touch  a 
 little  swath  of  icone  croins  to  the 
 front  of  the  dune  palm.  And  the  main 
 reason  for  the  two  different  types  of 
 croins  there  is  the  pie  crust  croins 
 grow  fat  and  chunky  and  tall.  So  I 
 [music]  have  three  and  three  on  either 
 side  of  the  the  palm  tree.  So  during  the 
 summer  months  and  that's  obviously  when 
 croins  really  do  their  thing  because 
 their  color  is  so  profound  during  that 
 time  of  the  year.  But  we'll  have  four  or 
 five  foot  of  big  clusters  of  high pieces 
 on  either  side  of  the  upright  dune  palm. 
 And  then  down  below  we'll  have  the  ice 
 tones  that  are  more  compact  and  small 
 and  lower  to  the  ground  and  nowhere 
 nearly  as  aggressive.  So  still  going  to 
 offer  color,  still  going  to  give  a  sweep 
 of  something,  but  it's  going  to  be  a 
 more  controlled  plant.  [music]  So  those 
 of  you  guys  who  need  to  change  that  up 
 for  not  putting  something  too  high  in 
 front  of  something  else,  that's  a  great 
 way  to  do  it.  Keep  the  height  to  the 
 sides  or  of  course  to  the  [music]  back, 
 but  then  take  that  front  and  find 
 something  with  a  similar  pattern  or  a 
 fully  contrasted  color  pattern,  but  make 
 sure  that  that  [music]  is  smaller  to  the 
 front  of  a  species  like  a  dune  palm  or  a 
 false  agave  or  imperialism,  anything 
 like  that.  And  as  an  underplanting,  a 
 little  bit  of  support  for  this  burmilad 
 here,  we  have  three  Caribbean  agave.  I 
 love  these  little  agave.  They're  they're 
 small  and  cute  now,  but  over  time  they 
 get  gorgeous  and  rounded.  So,  they're 
 almost  like  spherical.  So,  they'll  kind 
 of  come  up  to  this  range  [music]  and 
 just  round  right  out.  And  when  they  do 
 that,  they're  just  such  showstoppers  in 
 the  garden.  They  tend  [music]  to  stay 
 nice  and  small.  They  do  grow  super  slow. 
 So,  if  you  do  want  them  to  have  that 
 gorgeous  look  right  away,  you  might  have 
 to  get  them  in  a  15gon  size.  [music] 
 But,  this  was  I  think  a  5gallon  size 
 when  we  planted  them.  And  they're 
 already  starting  to  pop  out  with  some 
 interest.  But  over  time,  awesome.  What 
 they're  doing  is  framing  the  coina 
 boulder  that  we  have  here.  And  we  just 
 have  a  little  touch  of  yellow  lantana 
 down  below.  This  is  the  compact  Lantana. 
 It's  not  in  bloom,  unfortunately,  cuz 
 we're  we're  out  of  season,  but  it  does 
 bloom  a  beautiful  yellow  and  white 
 bloom.  And  it  stays  nice  and  rounded  and 
 compact  and  kind  of  beefy  like  that.  So, 
 I  just  love  that  type  of  lantana.  Also, 
 that  is  not  the  trailing  or  the  invasive 
 variety.  That  is  what  they  call  the 
 sterile  lantana.  I  tend  to  use  that  as 
 often  as  I  can.  And  of  course,  just  to 
 give  us  one  more  tier  of  a  lower  ground 
 cover  because  anytime  you  can  mound  like 
 that  and  layer  in  like  that,  you  want  to 
 start  with  the  lowest  possible  thing. 
 So,  we've  got  some  golden  [music]  sedum 
 down  below.  I  think  that  it  looks  so 
 good  around  boulders.  And  the  next  thing 
 that  I  use  around  boulders  pretty  often 
 [music]  is  going  to  be  the  foxtail  fern. 
 So,  we  just  have  a  swath  of  foxtail 
 ferns  in  this  little  shady  spot  of  the 
 yard  and  a  cool  coca  boulder  that  has 
 just  kind  of  an  interesting  look  to  it. 
 A  little  bit  more  height,  a  little  bit 
 more  impact  here  just  to  kind  of  finish 
 off  this  bed.  You  can  see  we're  kind  of 
 in  the  ditch  area.  This  is  a  wet  [music] 
 section  of  the  front  of  the  garden.  So, 
 you  notice  that  we're  on  a  rise  here. 
 So,  we  needed  to  kind  of  back  fill 
 [music]  and  add  some  soil.  So,  I  was 
 able  to  use  some  Buda  edging  to  really 
 kind  of  give  us  a  not  just  a  nice  show 
 line,  not  just  a  great  edging  [music] 
 piece,  but  something  that's  going  to 
 hold  in  that  mulch  from  being  lost  into 
 this  very  low  section.  You  can  see  this 
 area  is  wet.  It  stays  very  moist.  So,  it 
 is  important  to  make  sure  the 
 landscaping  [music]  is  kind  of  tucked  up 
 into  that  drier  section  of  the  garden. 
 All  right,  you  guys.  So,  this  next 
 [music]  area  was  a  problematic  one.  Now, 
 we  all  have  those  in  our  gardens, 
 [laughter]  but  this  one  was  a  bit  tricky 
 for  a  couple  different  reasons.  I  kind 
 of  want  you  to  see  the  whole  picture  in 
 this.  You  know,  a  lot  of  times  when  you 
 do  front  yard  landscapes,  you  do  them 
 tucked  around  the  house,  kind  of  like  we 
 did  that  first  section  of  the  garden 
 where  it's  right  by  the  foundation  of 
 the  house  and  then  you  do  the  same  thing 
 on  the  other  side  of  the  house  where 
 it's  on  the  foundation  of  the  house. 
 However,  this  yard,  this  side  of  this 
 yard,  we  have  a  big  drain  field  that 
 goes  in  all  the  way  to  the  back  of  the 
 yard.  And  it  caused  us  to  not  do  any 
 planting  on  that  side,  which  was  a  happy 
 accident  because  that  makes  you  think 
 outside  of  the  box,  you  know?  It  makes 
 you  think  of  how  can  we  still  make  this 
 really  cool,  really  interesting,  and 
 also  really  makes  sense.  So,  we  have  a 
 Kucio  wall,  right,  that  wraps  around 
 this  [music]  front  section  here.  And  you 
 guys  saw  that  that  Kucio  wall  on  the 
 other  island  does  the  same  thing.  So 
 having  two  5-ft  walls  coming  all  the 
 way.  [music]  I  mean,  look  how  close  we 
 are  to  the  roadway.  So  it's  almost  like 
 we're  creating  almost  like  a  gated 
 entrance  to  this  front  space.  When  all 
 of  this  grows  in  and  all  the  landscaping 
 pulled  forward,  it'll  feel  like  they 
 have  a  landscape  within  a  landscape.  So, 
 [music]  this  area  will  come  in,  be  a 
 nice  5-ft  border,  offering  some  privacy, 
 but  also  offering  a  little  [music]  bit 
 of  an  estate  feel,  kind  of  giving  us 
 this  really  cool  entrance  barrier  with 
 layered  plantings  all  the  [music]  way  to 
 the  front  to  kind  of  show  a  little  bit 
 of  personality,  a  little  bit  of  style. 
 So,  that's  exactly  what  we  have  here. 
 And  what  it  left  them  with,  and  we'll  go 
 inside  here  in  just  a  second,  but  it 
 left  them  a  great  space  for  games,  a 
 nice  little  yard  area,  and  all  we  did  is 
 took  the  landscaping  and  wrapped  around 
 that  section.  So  that  way  everything  is 
 just  beautiful  from  inside  to  [music] 
 outside.  So  you  can  see  here  we  have  key 
 features.  So  we've  got  the  false  agave 
 because  we  have  one  on  that  side  there. 
 So  anytime  you  can  pair,  anytime  you  can 
 have  some  accents,  do  that.  So  we  have  a 
 false  agave  here.  We  have  a  false  agave 
 there.  Now,  we  don't  have  one  over 
 there,  but  we  do  have  two  upright 
 vertical  things  there,  like  the  dune, 
 like  the  Imperialis.  So,  that's  another 
 way  to  tie  in  that  same  kind  of  look 
 where  when  you're  looking  at  from  the 
 street,  things  with  structure  that  are 
 up  like  this,  having  those  having 
 balance  all  the  way  through  the  yard, 
 that's  like  like  they  make  good 
 neighbors,  [music]  these  plants.  So, 
 we've  got  those  guys  there.  Nice  little 
 drift  of  Buggania.  These  are  Helen 
 Johnson  buganvillia.  [music]  That  means 
 the  compact,  the  ones,  the  little  shorty 
 guys,  the  ones  that  can  stay  dwarf 
 forever.  So  that's  exactly  what  we  have 
 down  here.  And  just  little  clusters  of 
 foxtail  ferns  where  we  [music]  need  them 
 just  to  soften  the  beds.  A  little 
 cluster  there,  a  little  cluster  here.  A 
 very  cool  coina  boulder  kind  of  set  at 
 an  angle  so  that  way  you  can  see  it  from 
 the  street.  Popped  in  some  Johannes 
 bmilads  to  the  front.  And  then  started 
 off  with  a  [music]  big  sea  of  yellow. 
 Now,  if  we're  missing  that  color  right 
 now  that  we  have  that  burgundy  [music] 
 pink  coloration  that  the  buganilas  give 
 because  we  have  that  carrying  over  with 
 things  like  the  Brazilian  red  cloaks  and 
 their  beautiful  pink  flowers  with  the 
 antiloo  and  that  dark  coloration  of 
 color,  the  ruby  reds  with  those  deep 
 tones.  So,  you  can  see  that  we're  we're 
 doing  pinks  and  purples  and  burgundies 
 and  that's  the  same.  So,  every  bed  has 
 that  little  collection  of  that 
 coloration  so  it  ties  in.  And  they  also 
 have  things  like  these  golden  dues  with 
 that  light  variation.  So  instead  of  Java 
 whites  or  anything  tall  here  like  we 
 have  in  the  other  beds  or  even  song  of 
 India,  we  had  to  keep  this  a  little  bit 
 lower  to  the  ground.  So  we  used  the  gold 
 mound  for  that  purpose  alone  because 
 it's  going  to  be  a  nice  seat  of  that 
 same  light  coloration  that  we  have  in 
 the  other  two  beds.  And  of  course  we're 
 also  on  a  slant  here.  So  we're  now 
 working  our  way  down  towards  the  ditch 
 area.  So,  we  use  the  edging  to  really 
 kind  of  help  control  [music]  the  height. 
 Being  able  to  add  a  little  bit  of  soil, 
 using  the  edging  to  keep  that  soil  in 
 place.  So,  this  is  area  is  a  little  bit 
 raised.  [music]  So,  that  way  that  we 
 have  a  natural  low  section  that  does 
 hold  the  water,  you  know,  like  like  we 
 were  intended  to  like  like  we're  all 
 supposed  to  hold  our  own  water.  That's 
 going  to  do  that  right  here  and  outside 
 of  the  planting  [music]  beds.  And  you 
 guys  know  I  love  my  Buda  edging.  It 
 comes  in  so  many  colors.  It's  durable. 
 It's  [music]  versatile.  and  it's  made  in 
 the  USA,  which  big  big  bonus  for  me.  It 
 is  in  the  link  down  below  in  the 
 description.  [music]  So,  please,  if  you 
 guys  are  looking  to  purchase  it  anyway, 
 think  about  purchasing  it  off  of  our 
 link  because  we  get  a  little  bit  of  a 
 commission  with  it.  It  is  a  product  that 
 I  use  in  my  own  home  and  of  course,  I 
 use  it  in  a  lot  of  other  homes.  So,  it 
 is  a  product  that  I  truly  believe  in. 
 All  right,  you  guys.  So,  now  we're  at 
 the  driveway.  Now,  I  think  this  turned 
 out  so  cool.  We  don't  have  a  lot  of 
 space  because,  of  course,  we  want  to 
 keep  this  area  open  back  here.  And  when 
 you  don't  have  a  lot  of  space,  I  know  a 
 lot  of  clients,  a  lot  of  my  customers 
 always  ask  me,  could  we  just  do  a  row  of 
 something?  Could  we  just  do  a  row  of 
 trees?  And  you  absolutely  can.  I  love  an 
 avenue  of  palm  [music]  trees.  But  if  you 
 want  something  to  look  a  little  bit 
 grander  and  you  don't  have  a  lot  of 
 depth  in  my  case  and  in  this  situation, 
 what  we  chose  to  do  is  use  foxtail  palms 
 because  they're  a  beefier  [music]  tree 
 with  a  feathery  canopy  and  they're 
 naturally  taller  than  the  kentopsis 
 [music]  palm.  So  they're  always  going  to 
 give  a  height  variation.  But  if  you 
 start  out  with  a  smaller  palm,  different 
 contrasting  leaf,  then  you  go  with  a 
 foxtail  palm  and  then  another  kentopsis 
 palm  for  again  a  lowered  height  [music] 
 back  up  to  a  foxtail.  I  guess  you  got  it 
 right.  You  can  really  see  that  it 
 [music]  adds  more  impact  than  if  I  were 
 to  just  put  a  row  of  foxtails  into  this 
 space.  [music]  Anytime  you  guys  can  do 
 that  up  and  down  motion,  up  and  down 
 motion,  you're  really  able  to  fit  a  lot 
 more  material  into  that  space.  And  then 
 if  I  were  to  put  foxtails  as  close 
 [music]  together  as  I've  got  the  kiopsis 
 and  this  foxtail  together,  they  would  be 
 competing  at  the  canopies.  And  that's 
 kind  of  what  we  want  to  avoid.  We  want 
 this  low  and  high,  low  and  high  kind  of 
 look.  So  that  way  each  tree  can  do  its 
 own  statement.  And  that  was  the  goal 
 here.  So  cuz  we  didn't  have  a  lot  of 
 room  to  work  with.  And  I  think  that  that 
 kind  of  maximized  it  for  the  space.  And 
 then  I  knew  that  we  had  a  lot  of  weight 
 on  that  side  over  there  with  the  oak 
 tree,  with  the  Sylvester  palms,  with  the 
 other  oak  tree,  with  the,  you  know,  the 
 foxtail  palms,  Christmas  palms.  We  have 
 a  lot  of  weight  on  that  side  of  the 
 house.  And  not  having  that  weight  on 
 this  side  of  the  house.  I  was  worried 
 about  how  that  balance  was  going  to 
 look.  So  being  able  to  create  this 
 linear  kind  of  grouping  with  these  palm 
 trees  gave  that  to  us  from  the  road.  Now 
 I  feel  from  the  road,  we  have  good 
 balance.  And  I  think  that's  [music]  the 
 one  thing  that  gets  missed  a  lot  when  I 
 see  new  landscapes.  I  see  where  they'll 
 put  two  or  three  trees  on  one  side, 
 maybe  one  tree  on  this  side,  and  then  a 
 few  rows  of  bushes  and  it's  like  [music] 
 you  kind  of  don't  know  what's  off,  but 
 it's  just  off.  So,  you're  really  having 
 to  work  with  what's  available  to  [music] 
 you.  If  you  have  weight  on  one  side, 
 whether  it's  the  same  plant,  same  tree, 
 or  different  variety,  as  long  as  they're 
 same  kind  of  balanced  weight  on  the 
 other  side,  then  it  all  feels  good  and 
 just  kind  of  like,  and  [music]  now  that 
 works.  Some  key  features  in  this  bed  are 
 my  cool,  oh  my  goodness,  some  of  my  new 
 favorite  plants.  These  are  the  yucka 
 restradas.  Having  one  on  either  side  of 
 this  walkway,  I  think  was  just  kind  of 
 another  double  [music]  bonus.  And  you 
 noticed,  as  I  mentioned  before,  we  had 
 the  false  agave  at  the  other  entrance. 
 So  having  something  smaller,  more 
 compact,  more  more  delicate,  but  still 
 just  [music]  as  striking  on  this  smaller 
 walkway,  it  was  just  like  a  nice  little 
 touch.  So  something  real  flamboyant  at 
 the  front  where  we  have  room  for  it  to 
 get  five,  six  foot  tall  and  be 
 fantastic.  And  then  something  here 
 that's  a  little  bit  more  delicate  but 
 yet  still  has  that  striking  kind  of 
 approach.  I  think  works  really  really 
 nicely.  So  the  yucka  restradas  are  ideal 
 for  environments  like  this.  And  the 
 other  main  focal  point  in  this  bed  here 
 is  going  to  be  the  king  Alexander.  This 
 is  a  double  king  Alexander.  I  have  it 
 facing  kind  of  like  this  just  so  I  just 
 love  that  Vshape.  goes  [music]  flat 
 against  a  flat  section  of  the  house  and 
 kind  of  gives  us  a  3D  effect  as  it  pops 
 forward.  Speaking  of  3D  effects,  [music] 
 so  when  something  pops  forward,  you  want 
 some  accents  or  some  features  to  pop 
 back  like  these  beautiful  dwarf  jasmine 
 [music]  trees.  It  looks  like  they  just 
 went  out  of  bloom.  Our  timing,  you  guys. 
 Oh,  there's  a  couple  pods  getting  ready 
 to  bust.  But  this  is  a  dwarf  jasmine 
 tree  bush.  [music] 
 So,  this  guy  is  going  to  be  kind  of 
 columnike,  but  definitely  not  like  a 
 topiary  in  any  kind  of  sense  of  the 
 word.  [music]  They're  more  of  a  natural 
 softer  leaf.  They  can  grow  up  to  six, 
 seven  foot  tall.  You  can  maintain  them 
 at  whatever  height  you'd  like  to 
 maintain  them.  They  can  stay  this  height 
 forever.  But  kind  of  having  something 
 soft  and  subtle  here.  And  these  little 
 nooks,  I  think,  offer  a  deep  green  kind 
 of  contrast.  This  particular  variety 
 blooms  a  whitish  purplish  flowering  has 
 beautiful  fragrance  to  it  in  the  jasmine 
 family.  So,  it  has  the  fragrance,  but 
 [music]  it's  not  as  strong  as  like  a 
 gardinia.  So  if  you  guys  are  a  little 
 bit  more  sensitive  to  that,  this  is 
 great  to  [music]  be  able  to  to  pick  the 
 flowers  or  to  pick  and  do  cutings  and 
 bring  them  inside  and  have  that  great 
 fragrance  [music]  to  it.  Right  below  we 
 have  these  excellent  croins.  A  nice  kind 
 of  coloration.  Now  during  the  summer 
 months  they're  very  very  vibrant  and 
 bright  like  you  see  here.  During  the 
 winter  months  as  you  can  start  to  see 
 they're  turning  a  little  bit  dark  tone. 
 So  that's  the  thing  with  Croins.  They 
 they  have  two  kind  of  different 
 variations  in  color  for  different  times 
 of  the  year.  Then  we've  got  Carissa 
 boxwood  because  we  just  need  it  to  be 
 pretty  tidy  right  here.  It's  a  tight 
 little  area.  So  finishing  off  with 
 Carissa  boxwood  at  the  bottom.  A  little 
 pop  of  golden  dues  with  a  little 
 clustering  of  antiloo.  And  then  we  have 
 this  back  bed  right  here.  And  for  this 
 section,  this  is  a  little  shady  nook  in 
 the  backyard  space.  So  this  is  in  the 
 rear  side  of  the  garden  and  it 
 definitely  need  a  little  punctuation 
 mark.  So  when  you  need  something  like 
 that  and  you  you  can't  let  something 
 grow  too  big,  [music] 
 you  could  totally  use  something  like  the 
 mule  palm.  It  grows  so  very  slow.  It's 
 going  to  be  a  great  feature  [music]  in 
 this  space.  It  has  a  very  cool  but 
 distinctively  different  leaf  than  all 
 the  other  leaves.  It  can  handle  cold 
 temperatures  up  to  almost  almost  [music] 
 snowing.  I  mean,  they're  really  really 
 tough.  This  is  a  cross  between  a  queen 
 palm  and  a  pendo  [clears throat]  palm. 
 So,  it  has  very  unique  look  to  it.  And 
 every  mule  palm  has  a  little  bit  of  a 
 different  look.  So,  when  you're  tagging 
 or  looking  for  yours,  make  sure  you  pick 
 it  out,  not  somebody  else,  [music] 
 because  they  can  be  really  cool  or  not 
 so  cool.  So,  this  is  a  lovely  one.  We 
 just  went  through  some  summer  storms, 
 but  overall,  it's  popping  back 
 beautifully.  Love  the  dark,  dark 
 coloration  [music]  to  these  leaves.  And 
 this  very  tiny  trunk  for  such  a  big 
 canopy.  If  you  guys  need  to  make  a  big 
 splash  with  [music]  something  and  you're 
 not  able  to  let  something  get  too 
 enormous  or  too  tall,  you  kind  of  want 
 something  [music]  with  a  short  trunk  but 
 a  lot  of  frond,  mule  palm  might  just  be 
 your  palm.  Right  around  the  base  side  of 
 it  is  going  to  be  the  Java  white  copper 
 leaves.  Java  white  copper  leaves  in  the 
 shade  [music]  versus  the  ones  that  were 
 in  the  sun  that  you  just  saw  a  few 
 minutes  ago.  The  difference  of  the  leaf 
 is  enormous.  I  mean,  look  at  the  size  of 
 this  leaf.  I  just  love  this  is  like  a 
 seymour  leaf.  This  is  like  giant  giant. 
 [music]  Now,  when  they're  in  the  shade, 
 they're  not  getting  the  harshness  of  the 
 sun,  so  they're  trying  to  find  more 
 exposure.  So,  they're  growing  those 
 leaves  like  big  giant  lily  pads.  So  that 
 way  they  get  a  little  bit  more  sunlight. 
 They  still  offer  the  beautiful  variation 
 in  color.  And  if  they  get  a  little  less 
 sun,  you'll  [music]  notice  they'll  go 
 even  they'll  take  it  from  yellow  to  a 
 little  bit  more  white  tones.  So  it's 
 it's  still  it's  a  beautiful  plant 
 whether  it's  in  the  sun  or  [music]  it's 
 in  the  shade.  But  just  know  if  you're 
 planning  on  putting  it  more  in  the 
 shade,  it's  going  to  stretch  more.  It's 
 going  to  try  to  reach  out  and  get  more 
 exposure.  [music]  So  filtered  light  is 
 an  ideal  space  for  this  or  full  sun. 
 Full  full  shade.  I  would  probably  stick 
 with  something  more  like  a  Sanchezia 
 [music]  instead,  but  this  is  kind  of  a 
 nice  middle  option.  This  gets  a  couple 
 afternoon  hours  and  then  that's  about 
 it.  And  just  to  finish  off  this  plant 
 grouping,  we  have  the  Brazilian  red 
 cloaks  to  the  back.  They're  going  to 
 offer  that  beautiful  green  foliage  with 
 pops  of  beautiful  [music]  pink.  All 
 right,  so  we  have  down  below  a  little 
 touch  of  the  ruby  reds,  but  we  do  have  a 
 silver  odor  that's  going  to  come  and 
 fill  this  spot.  So  that  way  we  have  that 
 last  touch  of  silver  for  this  space.  So, 
 if  this  was  your  jam,  you  guys,  please 
 remember  to  like  and  subscribe.  Bryce 
 and  I  post  every  single  weekend,  and  we 
 will  see  you  in  your  feed  next  weekend. 
 Thank  you  so  much  for  visiting.  Take 
 care.

---

 So,  you  want  to  know  the  best,  the  top 
 privacy  buffers  that  we  have  to  offer 
 here  in  South  Florida?  Well,  I'm  going 
 to  share  with  you  five  of  my  absolute 
 favorite.  Five  that  I  use  over  and  over 
 and  over  again  for  very  good  reason. 
 [music] 
 My  name  is  Jennifer  Beavens.  I  am  a 
 landscape  designer  here  in  Vero  Beach, 
 Florida.  And  we  provide  landscape 
 designs  like  you  see  around  me  here. 
 Resort  style  type  of  gardens,  front 
 yards,  backyards,  sideyards.  Um  we  do 
 designs,  we  do  installation,  and  we  do 
 virtual  consults  throughout  the  state  of 
 Florida.  All  of  our  contact  information 
 will  be  down  below.  So  reach  out  to  us 
 if  you're  looking  for  one  of  those 
 services  and  we'll  see  if  we're  a  good 
 fit  for  you  guys.  And  we  also  have  a 
 book  out  right  now.  It  was  released  last 
 week  and  it  has  some  of  these  plants  and 
 [music]  trees  that  we're  going  to 
 mention  here  today.  Absolutely 
 absolutely  love  it.  You  guys  will  have 
 to  pick  it  up.  We're  so  so  pleased  with 
 it  and  would  love  to  hear  your  thoughts 
 on  it.  So,  right  now,  let's  jump  into 
 the  first  of  the  five.  [music]  Well,  you 
 guessed  it  you  guys.  The  very  first  one 
 on  our  list  is  this  gorgeous  beauty 
 right  behind  me,  the  Brazilian  red 
 cloaks.  I  am  in  love  with  this  plant  for 
 so  many  reasons,  and  I'm  getting  ready 
 to  share  them  all  with  you.  So,  reason 
 number  one  is  even  when  they're  not  in 
 bloom,  look  at  this  leaf.  [music] 
 Look  at  the  size  of  this  leaf.  This  is 
 just  a  stunner  of  green  foliage  [music] 
 that  this  thing  offers.  And  it  stays  so 
 full,  so  thick,  and  so  dense.  But  one  of 
 the  things  I  love  about  this  plant,  even 
 though  it  may  feel  like  it's 
 intimidating  to  you,  this  can  be 
 something  that  can  be  kept  this  big,  or 
 it  can  be  kept  25t  tall  if  you  kind  of 
 want  to  see  those  blooms  peek  out  over 
 top  of  another  type  of  landscaping.  It's 
 so  soft  and  easily  moves  with  the  wind, 
 which  I  just  love.  To  me,  that  brings  a 
 landscape  to  life.  This  is  not  like  a 
 hedge.  It's  not  just  really  upright  and 
 real  rigid.  This  is  definitely  something 
 that  you  can  easily  easily  incorporate 
 around  a  base  of  a  tree  and  let  it  fill 
 up  and  fluff  out.  However,  that  does  not 
 mean  that  it  is  not  structurally  sound. 
 [music]  This  is  a  tough  tough  plant.  It 
 is  something  that  really  grows  nice  and 
 tight  together,  really  connects  to  each 
 other's  [music]  grouping  and  holds 
 really  well  through  those  windstorms, 
 through  those  rainstorms  that  we,  you 
 know,  that  we  occasionally  have.  They 
 [music]  do  a  fabulous  job  of  moving.  So 
 they're  not  so  stiff  and  sturdy  that 
 they  don't  kind  of,  you  know,  allow  the 
 air  to  go  through  them,  [music]  which  I 
 love.  Another  thing  that  is  a  nice 
 detail  with  this  type  of  plant,  and  this 
 is  a  bonus  for  me  in  any  kind  of  plant, 
 but  the  fact  that  you  can  trim  [music]  a 
 limb,  just  a  a  little  stock  off  and  then 
 propagate  it  right  in  the  ground.  You 
 can  either  add  to  your  collection  of 
 Brazilian  red  cloaks  to  make  them  fuller 
 and  fuller  and  fuller  or  you  can  find 
 other  spots  in  your  garden  or  be  the 
 best  neighbor  ever  and  give  them  over  to 
 your  neighbors.  Pop  them  right  into  the 
 ground  with  a  little  bit  of  soil.  Add 
 some  extra  water  to  them  and  voila,  you 
 have  a  brand  new  plant  collection  and 
 they  do  fabulous  like  that.  They're  so 
 so  easy  to  propagate  without  any  fuss  or 
 any  mus.  They're  just  put  those  guys  in 
 the  ground  and  they're  super  super 
 happy.  This  is  also  something  you  could 
 trim  nice  and  lightly  with  my  Felcos.  I 
 can  easily  just  nip  these  guys.  I  can 
 trim  [music]  them  so  crisply,  so  cleanly 
 without  any  kind  of  worry.  Look  at  the 
 size  of  this  limb  that's  here.  This  is 
 not  something  that's  like  a  hardcore 
 limb.  This  is  not  something  that's  going 
 to  be  like,  gosh,  I'm  just  going  to 
 barely  be  able  to  to  [music]  break 
 through  it.  This  going  to  be  something 
 that  I  could  almost  trim  with  scissors, 
 which  is  so  great  because  it's  so 
 pliable.  It  handles  the  breezes  and  the 
 wind  super  well,  but  [music]  it's  also 
 soft  enough  to  where  you're  not  having 
 to  bring  those  hard  loppers  or  chainsaws 
 to  trim  this.  This  is  an  easy  trim  to 
 propagate,  reuse,  and  that's  why  it's 
 one  [music]  of  the  favorites  amongst  all 
 of  my  buffer  plantings  because  of  what 
 it  offers.  Its  beauty,  its  durability, 
 its  flexibility,  [music]  and  the  fact 
 that  you  can  propagate  it.  All right,  so 
 for  our  second  plant  of  choice,  it's 
 probably  just  on  the  down  low.  You  don't 
 hear  about  it  very  often,  and  I  don't 
 know  why.  This  is  a  fantastic  plant  to 
 work  with.  This  is  something  you  can 
 keep  3-foot  or  you  can  let  it  get  20 
 foot.  This  is  green  buttonwood.  It  makes 
 a  fabulous  dense  dense  hedge.  It  is 
 Florida  native.  So  if  you  guys  are  want 
 to  attract  those  birds,  if  you  want 
 something  that  is  in  your  garden  that's 
 just  going  to  be  well  sustained  plant, 
 very  very  tough,  can  handle  salt 
 conditions,  perfect  for  coastal  areas. 
 But  bonus  is  it  doesn't  grow  as  fast  as 
 Kucia.  So,  if  you're  looking  for 
 something  a  little  less  maintenance  than 
 that,  something  that  you  don't  have  to 
 shape  or  trim  nearly  as  often,  green 
 buttonwood  is  an  ideal  choice.  And 
 [music]  it  stays  solid  from  the  bottom 
 all  the  way  to  the  top,  which  is  one 
 thing  that  I  love  about  Kucia  and  also 
 love  about  green  buttonwood.  Those  are 
 very,  very  tough  things  to  [music]  find 
 in  a  kind  of  a  tall  hedge  type  of 
 planting.  This  does  not  really  offer  any 
 beautiful  blooms  like  our  first  plant, 
 the  Brazilian  red  cloak.  However, 
 [music]  it  is  true.  It's  reliable.  It's 
 tough.  and  resilient  to  so  many  pests 
 that  are  out  there  that  we  have  to  deal 
 with.  So,  it  is  kind  of  like  if  you  have 
 a  big  area  and  you  really  do  want  to 
 conceal  that  off,  this  is  fabulous  to  do 
 and  then  do  some  colorful  plantings  to 
 [music]  the  front  of  it  to  jazz  it  up. 
 This  is  a  perfect  overall 
 lowmaintenance,  [music] 
 tough  and  reliable  hedge.  So,  green 
 buttonwood  is  definitely  number  two  on 
 my  list  and  one  I  don't  hear  about  as 
 often.  So,  I  hope  you  guys  will  take 
 some  chances  on  it.  So  for  our  next 
 buffer  favorite,  the  weeping  bottle 
 brush  tree.  It's  a  perfect  intermediate 
 buffer.  So  if  you  need  something  that 
 you  know  is  kind  of a  layering  effect  to 
 buffer,  this  is  an  ideal  little  tree  to 
 do  because  you  can  keep  it  the  size  that 
 you  want  to  keep  it,  but  it  fans  out 
 really  kind  of  does  a  big  giant  mushroom 
 type  of  look  at  the  top  and  a  skinny 
 little  trunk  at  the  bottom  which  allows 
 you  to  layer  on  top  of  it  like  you  see 
 here  with  the  blaze  copper  leaf.  So  it 
 gives  you  room  for  your  under  planting 
 but  then  gives  you  such  a  denseness  to 
 the  top  that  you  really  get  a  good  dash 
 [music]  of  coverage  and  it's  usually 
 right  where  you  need  it.  It's  usually 
 right  kind  of  in  that  ey  line  right  over 
 [music]  here  in  this  corner.  You  can  see 
 a  little  bit  of  the  white  house  behind 
 us.  But  there  is  a  big  white  house  back 
 there  that  my  client  was  trying  to  kind 
 of  just  avoid  every  time  she  pulled  up 
 the  driveway  just  to  kind  of  soften  the 
 end  of  her  yard  just  to  kind  of  give  her 
 that  little  bit  of  coverage  coming  back 
 this  way.  And  these  are  doing  a 
 fantastic  job  [music]  of  doing  that.  So, 
 if  you  guys  have  that  one  little  area 
 that  you're  really  trying  to  block  out, 
 you  can  do  one  or  you  can  do  a 
 triangular  formation  of  these  guys  and 
 then  fill  the  bottom  of  them  with  a 
 different  coloration  or  layer  two 
 different  plants  or  trees  [music]  in 
 there.  To  the  back  of  this,  we  have 
 Kucia  as  the  backdrop  and  we  have  the 
 blazed  copper  leaves  to  the  front.  We 
 have  some  additional  buffering  to  the 
 back  of  these  with  some  travelers  palms. 
 But  what  really  gives  you  that  dense 
 coverage,  what  really  does  it  for  you  is 
 the  head,  the  canopy  itself  of  the 
 bottle  brush  tree.  And  it  gives  you  that 
 gorgeous  red  color  most  of  the  year. 
 We're  just  coming  out  of  season  right 
 here.  But  what  a  gorgeous  coloration 
 these  little  red  pods  offer  all  over 
 this  tree  as  it  hangs.  It's  kind  of  our 
 version  of  the  weeping  willow,  I  would 
 say,  in  Florida.  I  think  it's  just  such 
 a  stunner.  It's  perfect  for  the  birds, 
 the  butterflies.  It's  just  such  an  a 
 nice  little  appeal  to  put  into  a  yard 
 without  a  tree  getting  [music]  so 
 ginormous  like  a  poinsiana  or  something 
 like  that.  So,  if  you're  planning  on 
 doing  this  and  you  have  plenty  of  room 
 to  work  with,  it's  great  to  put  these  in 
 a  triangle  formation.  So,  [music]  either 
 two  pulled  back  and  one  pulled  forward 
 or  vice  versa.  And  you  kind  of  want  them 
 to  be  around  7  [music]  to  8  foot  on 
 center  so  you  give  plenty  of  room  for 
 that  head  to  kind  of  mushroom  out.  We 
 were  hitting  tight  quarters  right  here, 
 so  we  had  to  pull  them  in  a  little  bit 
 tighter.  But  her  goal  was  to  have  a 
 little  bit  bigger  of  a  tree  option  than 
 what  we  had  to  work  with  here.  So  I 
 [music]  used  three  to  kind  of  accomplish 
 the  goal  of  one.  So  we  have  a  clustering 
 of  bottle  brush  tree  for  [music]  this 
 end  of  her  property  line.  And  I  think 
 it's  doing  the  job.  But  you  want  to  do 
 that.  And  then  you  also  want  to  do  on 
 average  once  to  twice  a  year  trimming. 
 So  you  kind  of  want  to  kind  of  trim 
 those  lower  bottoms  off.  And  this  is 
 trimming  that  you  can  do  with  little 
 hand  clippers.  This  is  not  something 
 that  that  you  need  big  shears  with  or 
 loppers  with  or  chainsaw  of  any  kind. 
 This  is  something  that  you  can  do  on 
 your  own  and  you  can  maintain  it  the 
 size  that  you  want.  You  can  let  these 
 guys  get  a  big,  beautiful,  large  size  or 
 you  can  kind  of  keep  them  this  size 
 forever.  All  of  that's  done  in  your 
 couple  times  a  year  maintenance.  So,  our 
 fourth  [music] 
 privacy  plant  here  is  graceful  bamboo.  I 
 absolutely  love  love  love  what  this  guy 
 offers.  The  only  negative  is  it  runs, 
 right?  It  does  not  run.  This  is  a 
 clumping  bamboo.  This  bamboo  is  easily 
 maintained  to  stay  whatever  size  you 
 love  it  [music]  to  stay.  Generally,  it's 
 around  2  to  three  foot.  We  put  it  along 
 pool  areas.  We  put  it  along  really 
 narrow  little  planters.  It's  ideal 
 because  it  is  so  vertical.  Go  [music] 
 straight  up  and  it  can  withstand  the 
 storms.  Even  though  it  has  some  nice 
 movement  to  the  top  of  it.  Look  at  this 
 [music]  young  branching.  This  isn't  even 
 one  of  the  harder  ones.  This  is  a  young 
 branch.  Easily  clipped  on  the  sides  with 
 little  loopers.  So,  nothing  that  you 
 have  to  do  big  chainsaws  for,  but  nice 
 and  strong,  moves  with  the  breeze  as  you 
 can  see,  but  very,  very,  very  easily  to 
 maintain.  Now,  this  plant  itself  could 
 be  maintained  at  4t,  6t,  10t,  20  foot, 
 depends  on  how  you  would  like  to  see  it 
 in  your  garden.  And  because  it  doesn't 
 run,  it  clumps,  which  all  that  means  is 
 it  does  produce  shoots  at  the  outside  of 
 the  center  of  the  plant  like  you  see 
 here.  But  if  you  do  not  want  it,  all  you 
 do  is  twice  a  [music]  year  clip  the  one 
 you  do  not  want.  And  it  is  so  slow 
 growing  like  that.  So  it's  going  to 
 widen  out  like  this,  produce  internally, 
 become  a  nice  thick  buffer  with  just  a 
 little  bit  of  care.  This  is  an  ideal 
 hedge  planting  to  work  with.  And  you  can 
 keep  it,  like  I  said,  [music]  small  or 
 tall.  But  overall,  it  gives  you  a  very 
 tropical  look.  Very  interesting,  not 
 very  hedgike  look,  but  can  be  maintained 
 like  you  would  maintain  a  hedge  by 
 [music]  just  easy  trimming.  So,  for  that 
 reason,  it  is  one  of  my  favorite  Florida 
 plants.  And  what  I  love  about  it  is  this 
 guy  can  go  all  the  way  into  the 
 Jacksonville  area.  This  is  all  over 
 Florida.  It  can  handle  those  cold  snaps. 
 It  can  handle  [music]  those  hurricanes 
 and  those  storms.  It  can  handle  so  much 
 of  what  our  weather  throws  at  it.  Its 
 [music]  durability  in  that  way  is  so 
 ideal.  So  that  kind  of  raises  it  every 
 time  a  plant  or  tree  kind  of  really 
 helps  itself  out  and  really  kind  of  is  a 
 long  sustained  plant  and  tree.  That's 
 why  they  become  my  go-to.  So  its  benefit 
 is  that  and  it  is  not  a  running  bamboo 
 like  a  lot  of  those  scary  bamboos  that 
 you  do  want  to  steer  clear  of.  This  is 
 an  ideal  one  to  check  into.  So  if  you 
 guys  have  a  narrow  spot,  you  need 
 something  to  be  vertical  but  you  want 
 dense  coverage  and  not  see  the  house 
 directly  behind  you,  then  graceful 
 bamboo  maybe  it  should  be  on  your  list. 
 All right,  you  guys.  So,  for  the  last 
 the  final  one  is  one  you're  never  going 
 to  believe.  You're  never  going  to  guess 
 it. 
 Essia.  I  know.  I  know.  Don't  hate  me  in 
 the  comments,  but  it  had  to  go.  It  had 
 to  go  on  today's  list  [music]  because  of 
 what  it  does.  It's  condensed  look,  its 
 beautiful  look,  and  its  versatility  to 
 use  into  the  garden,  especially  like 
 this  particular  garden  here.  And  that's 
 why  I  [music]  want  to  show  it  to  you  in 
 this  garden  because  overall,  Kucia  can 
 be  used  so  many  different  ways.  You  can 
 keep  it  like  a  20ft  wall  if  you  want  and 
 let  it  completely  block  out  the 
 two-story  house  next  to  you  or  you  can 
 use  it  like  we  used  it  here  for 
 Frankie's  house.  She  has  a  walkway  path 
 that  leads  all  the  way  around  her  house. 
 That  makes  it  so  nice  to  be  able  to  walk 
 any  time  of  day  around  her  house  and 
 enjoy  her  garden.  So,  what  she  really 
 wanted  to  see  was  being  able  to,  you 
 know,  wear  her  pajamas,  have  a  cup  of 
 coffee,  put  her  flip-flops  on,  and  walk 
 around  and  see  her  whole  garden,  see  the 
 whole  view  of  the  garden.  And  [music] 
 what  these  Kucia  offer  is  no  openings. 
 They  have  condensed  privacy.  And  you  can 
 see  kind  of  the  height  of  where  these 
 Kucia  are  just  at  my  headline  here.  So 
 this  is  the  perfect  height.  They  could 
 be  taller  if  they  wanted,  but  all  she 
 really  wanted  was  a  medium-sized  wall. 
 And  then  she  used  the  accents  on  both 
 sides.  We've  got  Brazilian  red  cloaks 
 behind  you  with  some  layered  yellow 
 thrielis,  some  lower  plantings  down 
 below,  and  then  you  can  see  the 
 Brazilian  red  cloaks  on  that  side  there. 
 And  this  wall  kind  of  comes  through 
 here,  curves  in,  and  then  back  down. 
 [music]  So,  it  becomes  kind  of  like  a 
 moving  waving  wall.  But  more 
 importantly,  it  becomes  the  privacy  that 
 she's  looking  for  for  what  she  was 
 looking  for.  And  that's  kind  of  what  I 
 mean  when  I  ask  my  clients,  kind  of  live 
 in  the  [music]  space  with  me.  Tell  me 
 how  you're  going  to  use  it.  Tell  me  what 
 you  need  it  for.  Do  we  need  it  to  do 
 this?  Do  we  need  this  plant  or  tree  to 
 do  that?  And  in  her  situation,  she's 
 like,  "Look,  I  want  to  be  in  my  PJs.  I 
 don't  want  to  have  to  worry  about  it.  I 
 want  to  have  a  cup  of  coffee.  I  want  to 
 enjoy  my  space.  [music]  This  is  a  crazy 
 busy  road  right  here.  I  just  want  to  be 
 able  to  enjoy  it  all  the  way  around 
 without  seeing  the  cars,  the  neighbors, 
 the,  you  know,  lawn  maintenance  guys 
 coming  in  and  out."  And  that's  exactly 
 what  this  does  to  you.  I  feel  like  this 
 is  a  very  private  space.  It's  almost 
 like  a  semi  kind  of  courtyard  along  her 
 walkway  space  on  the  sideyard.  And 
 anytime  that  you  can  do  that,  you've 
 [music]  just  extended  your  living  space 
 and  she  gets  to  incorporate  her  garden 
 along  with  that.  So,  Kucia  do  a  great 
 job.  Whether  you're  keeping  them  at 
 [music]  4T,  6T,  8T,  they  become  a  dense 
 wall  from  the  bottom  all  the  way  to  the 
 top.  Now,  they  are  fast  growers,  so  you 
 have  to  keep  that  in  mind.  Your  trimming 
 is  trimming  along  the  top  and  trimming 
 along  the  sides  to  keep  those  all  in 
 place.  And  that  has  to  happen  every  3 
 months.  That's  kind  of  my  general  rule 
 for  Kucia.  I  do  love  the  look  of  Kucia 
 because  I  love  that  big  succulent  leaf 
 on  there.  Funny  enough,  if  you  guys 
 travel  to  the  Keys,  you'll  see  Kucia 
 everywhere  and  people  will  put  their 
 little  initials  or  their  names  or  just 
 married  or  whatnot  on  those  leaves 
 because  the  leaves  last  [music]  so  long 
 on  the  plant.  And  that's  why  they're 
 almost  always  on  my  list  when  it  comes 
 to  [music]  creating  privacy.  They  can  be 
 kept  neat,  super  clean,  like  a  courtyard 
 feel,  or  they  can  be  a  little  bit  wild, 
 a  little  bit  crazy,  a  little  bit 
 tropical.  So,  they  really  fit  into  both 
 environments.  So,  if  you  guys  enjoyed 
 today's  video,  please  like  and 
 subscribe.  [music]  Bryce  and  I  post  a 
 video  every  single  weekend,  and  we  love 
 to  visit  with  you  guys,  share  these 
 gardens,  hear,  [music]  and  see  your 
 comments.  Those  are  so  fabulous.  Lately, 
 we've  started  answering  comments  with 
 shorts.  We're  trying  to  give  that  a  go 
 so  we  get  a  little  bit  more  explanation 
 out.  So,  if  you  guys  have  a  a  little  bit 
 your  question  needs  a  little  more  detail 
 than  what  a  comment  reply  is,  then 
 please  ask  it  and  we'll  do  our  best  to 
 answer  it  in  a  short  so  that  way  you  get 
 as  much  information  as  possible.  So,  if 
 you  guys  enjoyed  this  little  tidbit  of 
 this  particular  garden,  then  stick 
 around  because  we  are  going  to  do  a 
 garden  tour  all  the  way  around  this 
 garden  to  really  take  our  time  and  share 
 with  you  all  the  key  features  that  were 
 put  into  this  space  as  it's  matured,  as 
 it's  grown  in.  So  you  guys  really  we're 
 going  to  slow  down  a  little  bit  and 
 share  that  with  you  guys  and  you'll 
 [music]  get  to  see  some  of  the  spooky 
 spooky  little  decorations  which  I  think 
 is  just  so  cool.  All right  you  guys,  I 
 will  see  you  next  week.  Thank  you  so 
 much.  Please  check  out  last  week's  video 
 on  a  beautiful  little  front  yard 
 tropical  garden  tour  that  we  did.

---

 [music] 
 [music] 
 [music] 
 Well,  hello  true  gardeners.  Today  we  are 
 doing  a  spooky  garden  tour  of  this 
 beautiful  corner  lot  space.  So,  I  I 
 think  this  is  going  to  be  such  a  fun 
 garden  tour  because  my  friend  Frankie 
 really  knows  how  to  jazz  up  Halloween. 
 Happy  Halloween,  true  gardeners.  Today 
 is  all  about  privacy.  This  whole  front 
 section  here,  it  kind  of  dialed  up  to 
 give  her  some  soft  privacy  for  the 
 front.  And  then  as  we  work  our  way 
 around  to  the  site,  it's  really  going  to 
 give  her  a  nice  layered  [music]  privacy 
 where  she  can  literally  walk  from  her 
 front  door  all  the  way  around  her  house 
 in  her  pajamas  with  a  cup  of  coffee  and 
 not  have  to  worry  about  being  on  this 
 [music]  busy  four-way  stop.  This  area, 
 it's  so  funny  as  I  say  that.  Every  time 
 I  say  that,  there's  like  nobody  here. 
 But  I  swear  we  just  waited  for  trucks  to 
 pass  before  we  started  filming.  This 
 place  is  always  so  crazy,  so  busy. 
 [music] 
 She  really  just  felt  like  she  was  very 
 exposed,  very  out  in  the  open.  So 
 today's  video  is  all  about  creating 
 privacy  for  [music]  those  big  corner 
 lots  or  busy  streets.  So  if  that's  you 
 guys,  then  I  hope  you  can  take  some  of 
 this  material  and  tap  it  right  into 
 those  spaces  that  you're  really  needing 
 that  coverage  for  because  it's  doing  the 
 trick  here.  So  I  hope  it  does  the  trick 
 for  you  [music]  guys.  So  let's  get 
 started.  So  if  you  guys  are  liking  this 
 kind  of  content,  then  um  Mrs.  Curers  and 
 I  were  just  saying  please  like  and 
 subscribe.  We  post  a  video  every  single 
 weekend.  [music]  Well,  not  you  and  I,  me 
 and  Bryce.  I  know  we  post  every  single 
 weekend  and  we  love  reading  all  y'all's 
 comments.  And  just  for  those  of  you  guys 
 who  might  be  new  to  this  channel,  my 
 name  is  Jennifer  Beavenons.  I  am  a 
 landscape  designer  here  in  Vero  Beach, 
 Florida,  zone  10A.  And  we  do  landscape 
 design  and  installation  and  virtual 
 consults  through  most  of  the  state  of 
 Florida.  So,  if  you're  looking  to  have 
 something  like  some  of  the  garden  tours 
 that  we  share  with  you  guys  here  on 
 YouTube,  then  please  reach  out  to  us  and 
 see  if  we  might  be  a  good  fit  for  what 
 you  might  be  looking  for.  But  today, 
 right  now,  let's  jump  into  a  little  bit 
 of  privacy.  All  right,  so  I  just  hopped 
 the  fence  for  you  guys.  It's  very  very 
 scary  terrain  here.  I  wanted  to  share 
 this  front  section  with  you  first  off. 
 So  this  right  here,  I  know  this  might 
 seem  [music]  a  bit  intimidating  to  a  lot 
 of  people  because  it  is  a  good  amount  of 
 tree  material  directly  in  the  front  of 
 the  house.  But  my  client,  as  I  mentioned 
 before,  wanted  some  privacy  from  kind  of 
 where  you're  standing  right  [music] 
 there.  So  this  is  doing  the  job.  Not  a 
 full  block  off,  more  of  a  filtered 
 buffer.  And  that's  exactly  what  this  is. 
 This  is  actually  [music]  only  a  three 
 tiered  landscape  right  here  in  the 
 front.  Honestly,  it's  really  not  a  lot 
 of  material.  So,  what  we  have  here  is 
 obviously  the  centerpiece  [music]  of  the 
 Canary  Island  date  palm,  which  is  kind 
 of  like  a  fountain  as  our  centerpiece.  I 
 love  the  way  this  guy  does  [music]  this. 
 You  want  to  make  sure  that  you  are  aware 
 this  guy  does  have  thorns  on  the  limbs, 
 but  [music]  what  a  specimen  it  makes  as 
 a  center  fountain  feel.  Then  on  either 
 side,  we  have  two  pygmy  8  palms,  and 
 they're  offering  just  a  little  bit  of 
 soft  coverage.  Directly  to  the  back  of 
 the  pygmy  8  palms,  I  have  almost  like 
 it's  just  like  a  little  swoop.  It  swoops 
 forward  here  around  the  rear  of  the 
 piggy  ape  palm,  curves  in  and  then  back 
 around  of  [music]  a  staggered.  It  was 
 originally  a  staggered  grouping  of 
 variegated  arbicola  that  has  now  grown 
 into  one  plant.  And  that  left  us  just  a 
 little  bit  of  room  for  a  lower  planting 
 to  the  front,  which  is  these  dwarf 
 agoras.  You  guys  know  how  I  feel  about 
 dwarf  exoras.  They  bloom  all  the  time. 
 They're  nice  and  tidy.  They  stay  small, 
 [music]  stay  compacted  and  rounded.  They 
 do  a  great  job  of  offering  a  bright  tone 
 of  color  with  some  dark  green  [music] 
 contrast  to  the  variegated  arbicolas. 
 So,  it's  a  nice  two-tier  effect.  And 
 then  there  is  nothing  to  the  opposite 
 side.  I'll  get  Bryce  to  pop  in  so  you 
 guys  can  see  a  visual  of  the  inside. 
 [music]  It's  pretty  much  just  stone  in 
 there.  So,  it's  a  perfect  little  spot. 
 Different  times  of  the  year  she  sets 
 that  area  up  for  decorations.  But  what's 
 so  nice  is  all  the  landscaping  is  pulled 
 forward  away  from  the  seating  section, 
 away  from  the  walkway  section.  So  here 
 it  looks  heavier,  but  on  the  inside  it 
 looks  more  open,  more  clean  line.  So  you 
 kind  of  have  the  benefit  of  both  worlds, 
 which  is  a  nice  little  feel  to  this 
 particular  front  yard  space  and  allows 
 us  to  get  a  little  heavier  as  we  work 
 our  way  around  the  corner.  And  I'm  going 
 to  show  you  that  right  now.  So,  as  we're 
 moving  over  here,  I  did  forget  to 
 mention  that  you  guys,  if  you're  looking 
 for  making  a  spot  pop  a  little  bit  more 
 and  maybe  you  don't  have  the  room  to 
 make  it  happen,  or  maybe  you're  like 
 this  and  you're  kind  of on  an  incline, 
 adding  a  little  touch  of  stone  to  the 
 front  of  a  bed  is  a  really  cool  way  to 
 just  like  give  it  a  little  bit  of  a  pop 
 of  color,  a  little  bit  of  pop  of 
 interest,  whether  it's  a  light  colored 
 stone  or  a  dark  stone.  [music]  And  those 
 both  do  such  a  nice  job.  So,  we  have  a 
 kind  of  a  swath  of  stone  along  this 
 front  and  then  we  did  carry  it  over  on 
 both  sides  of  the  driveway  [music]  and 
 that's  mainly  because  of  the  slope  of 
 this  house.  This  house  has  such  an 
 extreme  slope  from  it  being  on  the  burm 
 [music]  that  that  water  comes  off  the 
 roof  like  a  champ.  My  goodness,  that 
 water  comes  off  like  a  waterfall.  So 
 having  some  of  larger  stone  [music] 
 here,  you  can  see  we  have  the  1  to  3  in 
 here  and  we  have  a  larger  collection  of 
 3  in  here.  And  that  does  a  great  job  of 
 kind  of  helping  as  soon  as  it  hits  this 
 area.  It  helps  not  undermine  the  PA 
 driveway  by  having  this  stone  where  the 
 water  just  kind  of  flows  like  this.  And 
 then  we  left  it  low  in  this  corner.  So 
 it  kind  of  just  takes  off  and  goes  right 
 into  the  culvert  the  way  it  was  meant 
 to.  It  does  this  both  on  both  sides  of 
 the  driveway.  And  I  think  having  it  in 
 two  different  colors  makes  it  just 
 interesting.  We  have  the  white  river 
 rock  here  and  the  Tahesian  gray  granite 
 and  the  large  stone  in  here.  And  I  I 
 think  it  ties  in  really  nicely  with  the 
 papers.  But  you  guys  will  you'll  have  to 
 tell  me  what  you  think.  So  we  are  now  at 
 the  corner  of  the  house  and  right  where 
 kind  of  where  you're  you  and  Bryce  are 
 standing.  It  is  kind  of  as  the  the  pass 
 through  traffic  and  a  two-way  stop.  And 
 there  is  usually  [laughter] 
 tons  of  traffic  that's  coming  along  here 
 that  is  not  here  right  now,  but  I'm  sure 
 I'm  sure  it's  on  its  way.  But  this  is  a 
 very  exposed  area,  very  very  exposed 
 area  of  the  corner  of  the  house.  So  what 
 we  have  here  is  just  to  anchor  this 
 corner,  we  have  a  [music]  nice  royal 
 palm.  This  guy  is  just  huge.  He's 
 massive.  Has  really  [music]  really  good 
 presence  in  the  garden  and  he  is  a  nice 
 anchor.  This  is  also  where  the  Kucia 
 start.  So,  we  had  the  Kucia  [music]  that 
 come  to  this  corner  and  start  making  its 
 way  all  the  way  to  the  edge,  the  fenced 
 gate  over  there  to  the  back  of  the 
 Kucia.  I  guess  you  guys  are  seeing 
 [music]  those  Brazilian  red  cloaks  and 
 doing  what  they  do  best,  offering  that 
 pop  of  color  right  above.  I  feel  like 
 when  I  walk  around  this  space,  I  [music] 
 am  just  constantly  peeking  over  just  to 
 see  what  they're  doing  back  there.  Looks 
 like  a  a  tropical  garden  just  beyond  the 
 Kucia  fence  here.  That  little  peekab-boo 
 really  entices  you  to  come  knock  on  the 
 door  and  ask  to  walk  through  the  garden 
 because  that's  that's  exactly  what  I 
 would  do  if  Frankie  and  I  weren't 
 friends.  I  think  I  think  I  would  just 
 ask.  We  have  flanked  this  little  corner 
 area  with  two  triple  bottle  palms.  Those 
 are  fairly  new.  She  wanted  to 
 incorporate  some  a  little  bit  more 
 weight  on  this  corner  and  I  think  that 
 was  a  good  idea  and  I  think  they're 
 going  to  do  a  beautiful  job  of  that  as 
 they  start  to  mature.  We  have  two  king 
 seos,  a  false  agave  that  is  going  to  get 
 nice  and  steep,  [music] 
 big  giant  Mr.  skeleton  man  [laughter] 
 and  a  few  boulders  just  to  kind  of  tie 
 in  this  corner  area.  This  is  on  a  pretty 
 extreme  slope,  so  there  is  not  a  lot  we 
 can  do  as  we  work  our  way  down  because 
 this  area  it's  kind  of  unplannable 
 [music]  in  this  particular  spot.  So,  we 
 tried  to  keep  everything  that  was  not 
 tough  up  above  us  in  this  particular 
 [music]  spot.  A  touch  of  yellow  here, 
 which  is  fabulous  for  the  birds.  If  you 
 guys  have  birds  and  butterflies, 
 thrielis  is  one  of  their  favorites.  I 
 love  having  a  touch  of  this  in  the 
 garden.  And  then  for  a  variegation,  to 
 me,  this  speaks  volumes  from  the  road. 
 This  dark  contrasting  color  to  me  is 
 just  a  [music]  stunner  against  that 
 glossy  shiny  leaf  of  the  Kousia.  I  love 
 the  way  this  looks.  This  is  Jacob's  coat 
 copper  leaf.  It  is  very  similar  and 
 related  to  Louisiana  red  copper  leaf. 
 And  it  just  has  a  tendency  to  stay  a 
 little  bit  more  compact,  a  little  bit 
 smaller,  and  doesn't  reach  quite  as 
 high.  I  know  that  sounds  crazy,  right? 
 Because  it  looks  pretty  big.  But  the 
 little  bit  of  the  curl  of  the  leaf  means 
 it's  a  dwarf  variety.  So  it's  somewhere 
 in  between  the  Brazilian  red  cloaks  and 
 the  blaze  copper  leaf.  So  it's  kind  of  a 
 a  nice  middleman  there.  But  I  love  the 
 pink  colorations.  Does  that  all  year 
 long.  So  it's  just  a  stunner  through  the 
 garden.  Definitely  worth  a  little 
 collection.  And  then  I  know  these  guys 
 get  a  lot  of  hate,  these  variegated 
 arbicas,  because  they're  used  so 
 commonly  in  builder's  packages  and  they 
 just  get  pllopped  in  anywhere  and 
 everywhere.  That's  because  [music] 
 they're  tough.  They're  a  plant  that  does 
 not  grow  super  fast,  can  be  easily 
 maintained.  Trim  this  about  every  three 
 months.  You  know,  whether  you  trim  it 
 like  a  hedge  or  you  mound  it  or  you 
 shape  it,  you  can  pretty  much  do  what 
 you  like  with  it.  It  doesn't  require  a 
 ton  of  water.  It's  about  as  [music] 
 close  to  a  native  that's  not  native. 
 It's  a  very  Florida  friendly  plant 
 because  of  that  reason.  And  you  can  keep 
 it  solid  from  the  bottom  all  the  way  to 
 the  top.  [music]  So,  it  can  be  a  skirt 
 planting  or  it  can  be  your  taller 
 planting,  but  it's  kind  of  a  nice 
 middleman  that  doesn't  really  grow  super 
 [music]  crazy.  So  if  you  need  some 
 contrasting  color  to  something  that 
 might  be  a  little  higher  maintenance 
 like  the  copper  leaves,  it's  a  great 
 pairing.  So  you  kind  of  have  a  high  and 
 a  low,  you  know,  so  it's  kind  of  a  good 
 balance.  Because  this  is  so  nice  and 
 clean  and  easy  going,  it  gave  us  another 
 centerpiece  that  we  can  pop  out  with.  So 
 we  have  a  triple  foxtail  palm  just 
 directly  above  us  and  a  little  kind  of  a 
 a  loop  that  we  were  able  to  pull  some 
 plantings  out.  So,  what  we  chose  to  put 
 in  this  area  in  the  rock  had  to  be 
 really  tough  because  as  you  guys  know, 
 rock  can  be  hard  on  plants.  So,  we've 
 got  the  false  agave  on  either  side. 
 We've  got  the  blue  agave  as  the 
 centerpiece.  We've  got  the  variegated 
 arbiccola  and  then  we've  got  the  foxtail 
 ferns  at  the  base.  Popping  out,  kind  of 
 saying  hello,  kind  of  reaching  out  this 
 way  are  the  Brazilian  red  cloaks.  They 
 make  a  [music]  great  underplanting  to 
 that  foxtail  palm.  I  just  love  the  way 
 they  fold  out  around  it.  I  just  think 
 that  they're  just  so  gorgeous.  [music]  I 
 don't  know  anything  that  can  welcome  you 
 in  more  than  Brazilian  red  cloaks  when 
 they're  all  in  their  glory.  Down  below, 
 they're  the  curly  copper  leaf.  They're 
 called  roses.  They  just  do  such  a  nice 
 job  of  being  a  compact  medium  tier  plant 
 grouping.  And  the  variegated  arbicola 
 down  below  them  are  doing  just  what  they 
 do,  which  is  staying  nice  and  compact 
 and  easy  to  care  for.  Now,  I  am  trying 
 to  figure  out  how  I'm  going  to  make  it 
 over  there  past  this  guy.  Oh,  yuck. 
 Okay,  so  we've  made  it  onto  this  side 
 here.  And  again,  just  some  boulders  just 
 to  tie  in  and  touch  up  this  little  area 
 for  like  just  a  little  ump.  And  I  think 
 that  this  spot  just  really  does  a  nice 
 job  of  taking  a  regular  hedge  and  making 
 it  interesting.  So  if  you've  got  a  hedge 
 to  the  back,  curve  it  out  with  some 
 interesting  features  to  the  front  and 
 dress  it  up  a  little  bit.  Just  kind  of 
 give  it  a  little  mascara,  a  little 
 lipstick,  and  it  does  a  nice  job  of 
 turning  a  privacy  wall  into  more  of  a 
 tropical  buffer.  We  have  a  transplant  of 
 one  from  her  original  planting.  Speaking 
 of  original  planting,  I'm  going to  get 
 Bryce  to  pop  up  what  this  house  looked 
 like  when  it  was  newly  landscaped.  She 
 had  a  previous  landscaper.  If  you  guys 
 did  not  see  the  original  garden  tour, 
 I'll  be  sure  to  link  it  down  below 
 because  that  [music]  was  pretty  cool.  It 
 was  a  great  little  interview  that  we  had 
 with  Frankie.  Yeah,  this  was  part  of  the 
 original  landscape  and  there  are  a  few 
 key  things  that  were  part  of  the 
 original  landscape  that  we  had  to 
 repurpose  and  find  places  for.  But  yeah, 
 this  is  private  space.  On  the  inside  of 
 this  is  a  walkway  that  leads  all  along 
 the  side  of  her  house  that  keeps  it 
 [music]  nice  and  clean.  So,  she  can  walk 
 out  her  front  door  in  her  PJs  with  a  cup 
 of  coffee,  walk  all  the  way  through  the 
 garden  and  enjoy  it  on  a  fresh,  clean 
 walkway  area  and  just,  you  know,  get  to 
 appreciate  a  bit  [music]  of  privacy.  You 
 can  tell  that  this  wall  that's  here  is 
 about  6  foot  from  the  inside.  So,  that 
 is  pretty  much  above  Frankie's  head.  So, 
 she's  kind  of  free  and  clear  from  any 
 traffic  or  anybody  kind  of  passing 
 [music]  by  as  they're  walking  their  dogs 
 on  this  busy  busy  road.  So,  so  if  you 
 guys  enjoyed  some  of  these  plants  and 
 trees  in  today's  video,  then  check  out 
 our  book.  A  lot  of  those  plants  and 
 trees  are  within  that  book  and  give  you 
 just  so  much  more  detail  and 
 understanding  of  some  of  these  Florida 
 fantastic  favorites  that  I  love  to  talk 
 about  in  these  gardens.  And  please  let 
 us  know  what  you  think.  We  are  so  very, 
 very  proud  of  it.  It  was  just  a  such  a 
 project  that  Bryce  and  I  really  enjoyed 
 over  the  last  year  and  a  half.  We  put  a 
 lot  of  time  and  energy  into  making  sure 
 that  we  filled  it  with  good  good 
 information  for  new  gardeners  alike  with 
 gardeners  who  have  been  around  the  ben  a 
 while.  So,  we're  hoping  that  there's 
 good  detailed  information  in  it  for 
 everybody.  So,  I  hope  you  guys  enjoy  it 
 and  thank  you  so  [music]  much  for  your 
 your  kind  comments,  your  love,  and  your 
 support.  All  right,  true  gardener.  So, 
 we  are  doing  a  quick  interruption 
 [music]  here  just  so  we  can  get  a  few 
 words  in  with  my  friend  Frankie  and  the 
 homeowner  of  this  beautiful,  beautiful 
 garden.  You  guys  have  already  got  a 
 chance  to  see  her  cool  decorations.  So, 
 my  question  for  you,  Frankie,  is  how 
 long  [music]  did  it  take  you  to  set  up 
 everything  that  we  see  here  with  all 
 these  beautiful  decorations  and  the 
 imagination  behind  it? 
 >> I  started  the  first  actually  the  first 
 or  the  second  day  of  September. 
 >> September.  Okay. 
 >> Yeah.  So,  I  start  in  September  and  then 
 depending  on  the  weather,  I'm  out  here 
 almost  every  day.  [music]  Yeah.  Just 
 setting  things  up.  And  every  once  in  a 
 while  I  do  have  some  help,  but  for  the 
 most  of  it,  I'm  [music]  out  there  by 
 myself. 
 >> But  you  know what?  That's  that's  great 
 if  you're  going  to  do  all  of  this 
 starting  starting  in  September  and  then 
 keeping  it  into  into  Thanksgivingish. 
 You  know,  I  would  totally  do  that. 
 >> Yeah. 
 >> And  then  maybe  Frankie  will  invite  us 
 back  for  [music]  her  um  Christmas  uh 
 garden  tour  because  she  puts  up  a 
 beautiful  display  for  Christmas.  It's 
 like  a  It's  like  a  winter  winterland 
 over  here.  But  um  yeah,  a  lot  of  lot  of 
 time  goes  into  this  this  garden.  When  we 
 did  the  garden  and  the  planting  and  we 
 talked  about  plants  and  trees  and  things 
 that  you  liked,  but  did  it  accomplish 
 the  whole  feel?  Did  it  accomplish  what 
 you  were  looking  for?  Oh,  most 
 definitely.  I  think  it  accomplished  what 
 I  was  expecting  and  more  cuz  I  have  so 
 much  privacy.  It's  beautiful  and  people 
 are  always  driving  by  and  complimenting, 
 you  know,  the  gardens.  You  surpass  what 
 I  expected.  Well,  I  I've  been  loving  it. 
 Every  time  I  come  here,  I  love  to  I  love 
 seeing  it  unfold  and  mature.  This  garden 
 is  a  good  three  years,  three  and  a  half 
 years,  something  like  that  underway. 
 Yeah.  So,  it's  it's  it's  well  underway. 
 So,  I'm  excited  for  you  guys  to  see  the 
 rest  of  the  garden  kind  of  unfold 
 because  a  lot  of  times  you  get  to  see 
 these  [music]  gardens  right  off  the  bat, 
 but  now  you're  going  to  get  to  see  it  as 
 it's  matured  and  really  grown  in  to 
 [music]  know  what  to  expect.  So,  if  you 
 had  to  pick  one  and  one  only,  what  would 
 be  your  favorite  part  of  the  garden? 
 That's  really  difficult  because  I  love 
 all  of  it.  [laughter] 
 >> But  if  I  had  to  pick  one,  I  would  say 
 it's  the  side  of  the  house  that  faces 
 the  street. 
 >> Oh,  [music]  yeah.  Yeah, 
 >> that  side  is  my  favorite.  I  sometimes  I 
 just  walk  around  the  house  or  I'll  drive 
 by  instead  of  coming  straight  home.  I'll 
 just  drive  just  to  look  at  it. 
 >> Oh,  that's  so  sweet. 
 >> The  side  in  the  corner  or  that  section 
 right  there  is  my  favorite. 
 >> Thank  you,  Frankie,  so  much  for  allowing 
 us  over.  So,  if  you  guys  enjoyed  today's 
 garden  tour,  then  please  check  out  the 
 garden  tour  about  three  years  ago  when 
 we  did  this  uh  first  tour  right  after 
 the  installation.  I  think  you  guys  would 
 enjoy  it.  Thanks  so  much  for  visiting 
 with  us.  Take  care.

---

 [music] 
 [music] 
 Well,  hello  gardeners.  Welcome  [music] 
 back.  We  are  in  Vero  Beach,  Florida, 
 zone  10A  today  and  I  want  to  share  with 
 you  a  very  young,  very  newly  installed 
 landscape  [music]  buffer.  This  is  a 
 sideyard  buffer  and  a  fairly  narrow 
 spot.  I  thought  this  might  be  a  really 
 good  video  because  this  combination  of 
 plants  works  [music]  super  super  well 
 together.  So,  if  you  guys  have  that 
 perfect  spot  in  your  garden  and  you're 
 like,  I  just  need  some  coverage,  but  I 
 don't  want  it  to  look  like  just  a  wall 
 of  something.  I  want  it  to  have  some 
 appeal.  Maybe  set  it  in  areas  where  the 
 viewpoint  shines  directly  out.  So,  if 
 you're  just  like  my  customers  here  where 
 you  have  that  narrow  little  strip  right 
 between  your  house  and  your  neighbor's 
 house  and  maybe  you  [music]  know  just 
 some  some  visual  aspects  or  are  not 
 super  appealing  to  you,  whether  it's 
 your  windows  looking  at  directly  at 
 their  windows.  I  hear  that  a  lot.  Or  if 
 it's  just  like  my  clients  here  where 
 their  bedroom  windows  shine  right  into 
 the  back  screen  porch  and  the  TV  area 
 for  their  neighbor.  So,  I  thought  I 
 would  share  with  you  guys  the  plant 
 choices  that  we  made  here,  what  they're 
 going  to  do  over  time,  so  you  can  kind 
 of  feel  confident  if  this  is  something 
 you're  going  to  tackle  on  your  own. 
 Those  of  you  guys  who  happen  to  be  in 
 our  area  and  would  like  to  have 
 something  like  this  installed,  then  hit 
 up  your  girl.  You  know,  I'm  a  landscape 
 designer.  I  service  the  Treasure  and 
 Space  Coast  area  and  we'd  be  very  happy 
 to  meet  with  you.  I  also  offer  virtual 
 consultations.  I  lay  it  out  on  my 
 program  and  then  just  email  it  to  you 
 guys  so  you  guys  get  a  good  visual  what 
 that's  going  to  look  like.  We  have  a 
 full  master  plan  service  and  we  do  that 
 for  a  good  part  of  Florida.  So,  reach 
 out  to  us.  I'll  put  all  of  our  contact 
 information  down  below.  You'll  speak  to 
 my  daughter-in-law,  Marissa,  and  she 
 will  give  you  all  the  ins  and  outs  of 
 everything.  But  for  now,  let's  jump 
 right  into  this  landscape  buffer  and 
 kind  of  what  it's  doing  for  the  space. 
 All  right.  So,  what  you  guys  are  seeing 
 here,  what  Bryce  is  showing  you  is  just 
 kind  of  the  full  frame  of  this  little 
 sideyard  island.  But  what  I  do  love 
 about  this  is  this  is  not  just  a  little 
 hidden  gem  just  for  the  bedroom  windows. 
 This  is  something  that  you  [music]  can 
 see  right  from  the  road.  So  this  is  a 
 kind  of  front  yard,  sideyard  buffer  type 
 of  planting,  [music]  but  something  very, 
 very  appealing  cuz  my  clients  wanted  a 
 wall.  They  wanted  something  that  was 
 going  to  create  some  pretty  good 
 coverage  just  from  the  neighboring 
 house,  but  they  also  wanted  it  to  look 
 good  from  [music]  passer  buyers.  And  we 
 all  have  that,  especially  those  of  you 
 guys  who  are  on  corner  lots.  I  know  that 
 is  a  huge  thing  because  your  corner  lot 
 is  technically  just  an  extension  of  your 
 front  yard.  And  so  we  kind  of  wanted  to 
 do  the  same  thing  with  this.  We  wanted 
 to  really  make  sure  that  this  is  a 
 pretty  visual  and  it's  going  to  grow  in 
 with  layers  and  colors  along  this  side 
 and  it's  not  going  to  feel  like  they 
 just  put  up  a  wall  to  kind  of  block  off 
 the  neighboring  house.  And  it  also 
 doesn't  make  them  feel  closed  in.  If  we 
 put  up  a  row  of  RA  palms,  which  nothing 
 bad  about  that,  but  if  you  do  that, 
 sometimes  it  has  a  tendency  to  close  the 
 area  in  even  more.  And  we  want  to  try  to 
 avoid  that  if  we  at  all  possibly  can 
 because  that's  what  gives  you  that  kind 
 of  garden  feel.  Gardens  are  meant  to 
 draw  you  through  to  take  you  through 
 this  expanse.  [music]  That  being  said, 
 my  client  said  originally  they  had  no 
 intention  of  kind  of  really  creating 
 this  area  as  a  pathway.  But  what  is 
 coming  very  soon  [music]  is  a  gate  for 
 that  fence  right  there.  And  this  is 
 going  to  be  an  entrance  pathway.  [music] 
 We're  going  to  do  a  little  bit  more  work 
 here  for  their  front  yard,  connect  these 
 two  areas,  and  this  is  going  to  be  the 
 future  pathway  to  their  backyard  secret 
 garden.  Just  to  give  you  guys  a  point  of 
 reference  for  [music]  this  particular 
 garden,  this  loop  comes  out  to  about  10 
 10  and  1/2  ft  wide  right  here  at  [music] 
 the  biggest  portion  and  then  it  swoops 
 in  and  gradually  goes  into  the  six  and  5 
 foot  range  as  it  curves  in  and  then  pops 
 back  out  just  to  kind  of  give  us  a 
 little  bit  of  flow.  We  left  just  enough 
 room  for  their  maintenance  guy  to  get  in 
 here  and  mow  this  section.  Now,  this 
 garden  may  change  in  the  future  as  the 
 front  yard  gets  done  and  we  start  to 
 loop  this  out.  We  might  make  this  more 
 narrow  and  instead  of  grass,  this  will 
 turn  into  a  stone  pathway  with  some  flag 
 stone  leading  to  the  backyard.  But  for 
 right  now,  we're  keeping  the  grass.  So, 
 we  needed  to  kind  of  keep  this  section  a 
 little  bit  compact.  We  did  back  it  with 
 edging,  which  I  absolutely  love.  And  I 
 was  telling  them  with  the  beauty  edging, 
 we  can  lift  this  up  and  curve  this  bed 
 and  then  pop  back  out  to  recreate  or  add 
 into  that  loop  when  we're  ready  to  make 
 this  a  flagstone  [music]  rock  pathway. 
 Right  at  the  very  end,  I  wanted  a  little 
 punch,  a  little  bit  of  interest.  And  you 
 guys  know  how  I  feel  about  my  false 
 agave.  I've  got  a  false  agave.  You  can 
 see  [music]  this  right  from  the  road. 
 It's  going  to  give  us  a  fantastic  five 
 foot  in  time,  a  five  foot  [music]  impact 
 right  here  at  the  front  because  of  the 
 light  variation  in  this  particular 
 plant.  I  chose  to  use  a  little  touch  of 
 ruby  reds.  We  only  have  a  handful  of 
 these  right  here.  But  this  is  going  to 
 kind  of  give  us  that  [music]  dark 
 coloration  against  the  beauty  edging  and 
 against  the  variegation  here.  And  then 
 of  course  as  we  move  on  to  the  gold 
 mounds  to  the  [music]  back.  So  if  you 
 guys  have  seen  my  book,  which  is  now 
 out,  I'm  so  excited.  It's  out  on  Amazon. 
 I  mix  this  collection  of  three  plants 
 together  so  very  often  because  they  work 
 so  well  together.  They  don't  compete. 
 They're  nice  and  compact.  They  really, 
 really  do  fill  in  a  spot.  And  just  to 
 give  some  balance  and  some  dark  tones  to 
 the  little  rubies,  we've  got  antiloo 
 quarter  lines.  Just  a  clustering  of 
 those  together.  Now,  I  get  this  question 
 all  the  time  about  antiloo's.  Gosh,  I 
 love  these,  but  I  hate  how  sticky  and 
 long  and  thin  they  get.  Now  these 
 antiloos  are  a  collection  in  one 
 grouping.  This  is  how  I  like  to  plant 
 them.  I  like  to  plant  an  oversized  dig  a 
 big  hole  with  these.  Now  you  can  put 
 three  gallons  or  you  can  put  one  7gallon 
 and  a  couple  three  gallons  and  connect 
 them  together  just  like  you  would  put  in 
 a  vase  just  like  you  would  put  inside 
 the  house.  Connect  them  together  like 
 this  because  what'll  happen  in  that  same 
 hole.  [music]  What  they'll  do  is  they'll 
 push  against  each  other  for  future 
 growth.  They'll  be  perfectly  fine. 
 Nobody's  going to  be  starving.  They'll 
 root  together  and  become  one  happy 
 family.  But  what  they  will  do  is  [music] 
 instead  of  having  any  kind  of 
 legggininess,  you  put  in  some  smaller 
 antiloo  down  below  with  some  bigger  ones 
 that  are  here.  And  now  they're  going  to 
 push  against  each  other  creating  one  big 
 bouquet  of  these  [music]  guys.  And  all 
 you  have  to  do  is  once  per  year  trim  the 
 tallest  one.  As  soon  as  it  starts  to  get 
 a  little  bit  of  wood  on  it,  a  little  bit 
 of  legggininess  to  it,  trim  that  tallest 
 trunk  right  here.  It  will  flush  out  with 
 two  new  heads,  sometimes  three  at  the 
 bottom,  giving  you  another  tier.  You 
 take  this,  the  tall  section  of  this  here 
 because  it's  still  beautiful,  it's  still 
 gorgeous.  Your  option  is  to  bring  it 
 inside  the  house,  put  it  in  a  vase,  or 
 put  it  right  back  into  the  ground.  You 
 can  take  this  guy  and  now  there's  an 
 opening  right  here.  So,  you  can  cut  this 
 guy  and  put  him  right  here.  Now, 
 allowing  this  to  get  chunkier  and 
 fatter.  And  before  you  know  it,  you've 
 got  a  collection  of  seven  or  eight  of 
 these  that  have  just  really  branched 
 out.  [music]  And  they're  really  the 
 gorgeous  bouquet  longterm  year  after 
 year  after  year  after  [music]  year.  Just 
 a  pop  of  color,  a  pop  of  impact,  and  not 
 one  bit  of  legggininess  in  [music] 
 sight.  So  don't  sleep  on  these  guys. 
 Just  to  kind  of  follow  through  with  the 
 rear  tier  here,  we  have  Kucia  as  the 
 backdrop  here.  [music]  These  are  10gon 
 Kousia.  These  just  went  in  a  couple  days 
 ago,  so  everything  is  still  wonky  before 
 it  has  a  chance  to  really  [music]  stand 
 up  straight  and  start  to  connect  with 
 each  other.  But  in  a  matter  of  months,  6 
 months,  these  guys  will  be  a  foot  to  two 
 foot  taller.  They'll  have  started  to 
 connect  with  [music]  each  other.  When 
 you  guys  get  them  and  they  have  this 
 kind  of  weepy,  wonky  kind  of  look  to 
 them  that  generally  kucia  will  do  that 
 until  they  root  in.  Because  what  happens 
 is  they  throw  out  these  kind  of  wonky 
 limbs  just  like  you  see  here  cuz  they're 
 looking  for  something  to  grab  hold  of. 
 See,  look,  [music]  it's  like  a  magnet. 
 They  want  to  connect  with  each  other. 
 So,  as  soon  as  they  connect  with  each 
 other,  they  connect  with  their 
 neighboring  plant. 
 >> [music] 
 >> Now  they're  solid.  They  are  just  armed 
 like  this.  So  they  are  a  [music]  braided 
 plant.  And  not  only  do  they  braid  like 
 this  up  here,  but  they  also  braid  that 
 way  underneath  the  ground,  which  makes 
 them  so  fantastic  for  weed  suppression. 
 Oh  my  goodness,  you  guys.  When  you  get 
 these  guys  in,  it's  almost  like  anything 
 is  hard  to  live  around  these  little  guys 
 that  are  trying  to  pop  up  like  little 
 weed  seedlings.  So  go  ahead  [music]  and 
 allow  these  guys  to  connect.  really  give 
 them  some  good  water  to  get  them 
 established  because  all  of  this  right 
 here  is  water.  [music]  It's  a  succulent 
 in  there.  So,  get  that  kind  of  that  that 
 nice  shiny  leaf.  Give  it  some  good 
 water.  After  establishment,  2  days  a 
 week  of  water  is  perfectly  fine.  The 
 first  60  [music]  days,  um,  every  day  to 
 every  other  day  for  10  to  15  minutes  is 
 ideal  to  spray  these  guys  down  with  some 
 extra  water.  It  just  kind  of  gives  them 
 a  little  bit  of  a  reprieve  from  that 
 [music]  heated  day.  So, 
 >> hey  you  guys,  going  to  pop  back  in  here 
 a  little  bit  in  the  comments.  I  got  a 
 lot  of  uh  support  with  uh  the 
 measurements.  So,  I  wanted  to  see  if  I 
 could  help  you  guys  out  again  with  that. 
 Moving  back  to  the  shrubbery,  the  Kucia 
 from  on  center  of  each  plant,  from  the 
 center  of  this  plant  right  here  to  the 
 center  of  this  plant  right  here  is  3  ft. 
 And  I  got  a  size  12.  So,  count  it  off 
 for  you.  One,  two,  three  [music]  on 
 center  right  there.  One,  two,  three  on 
 center.  Plant  right  here.  Now,  that  can 
 change  if  you're  next  to  say  like  a  big 
 oak  tree.  you  have  to  move  with  the 
 miscellaneous  a  little  bit.  So  instead 
 of  you  know  being  3  ft,  it  could  be  4 
 foot  to  because  you  have  a  giant  root  in 
 the  ground  right  here.  And  the  same  goes 
 for  these  quarter  lines  right  here.  So  1 
 2  [music] 
 3  on  center.  This  is  going  to  be  3  ft  on 
 center  from  the  Kucia  to  the  cordon.  One 
 thing  I  want  to  give  my  mom  props  on  is 
 that  she's  [music]  really  good  with 
 functionality.  You  could  tell  right 
 here,  this  is  for  drainage.  This  is  the 
 lowest  [music]  point.  So  it  allows  for 
 the  water  just  to  drain  to  right  here. 
 Most  people  [music]  like  in  Florida, 
 they  want  to  use  the  majority  of  their 
 property  in  their  landscaping.  [music] 
 But  instead,  she's  like,  "Okay,  let  me 
 just  save  them  the  hassle  and  make  sure 
 everything  flows  correctly  and  move  this 
 about  a  foot  and  about  2  ft  from  when 
 she  started  the  planting  [music]  for 
 nothing  to  be  messed  up  with  the 
 drainage.  This  edging  is  going  to  be  a 
 perfect  buffer  for  when  the  water  does 
 raise  a  little  bit.  It's  got  about 
 probably  3  in,  maybe  4  in.  And  then  you 
 can  see  that  this  is  also  raised 
 [clears throat]  up  a  little  bit  too.  So 
 it  shouldn't  be  affected  by  that  water. 
 So  when  you're  thinking  about  doing  this 
 yourself,  that's  something  to  really 
 keep  in  mind.  For  instance,  Kucia  don't 
 like  to  be  sitting  in  water.  So  she  knew 
 she  had  to  move  it  away  from  that 
 drainage.  So  it's  about  knowing  your 
 plants,  but  also  knowing  the  area,  the 
 landscaping,  too.  And  one  more  thing 
 about  functionality.  I  know  she  said  it 
 before.  I  get  this  all  the  time  when  I'm 
 meeting  with  clients  as  well.  A  lot  of 
 people  forget  about  that  lawn  mower 
 path.  You  need  about  four  feet  in  order 
 to  get  into  [music]  here  and  to  mow 
 right  here.  And  I  know  she's  planning 
 for  the  future  to  have  a  walkway.  But 
 for  now,  it's  really  [music]  important 
 that  you  have  this  space  so  your  lawn 
 mower  guy  is  not  knocking  on  your  door 
 saying,  "Hey,  what  are  we  doing?"  But 
 going  [music]  back  to  the  spacing,  this 
 is  a  15gallon  falsave.  And  this  is  a 
 1gon  [music] 
 little  ruby  or  ruby  red.  The  general 
 spacing  for  one  gallon  is  about  1  to 
 [music]  2  ft  away  on  center.  So  the 
 center  of  this  plant  to  the  center  of 
 this  plant  [music]  is  going  to  be  about 
 2  feet  away.  And  the  same  with  the  gold 
 mound.  This  is  one  2  ft  away.  It's  all 
 right  to  go  close  because  [music]  this 
 fals  agave  is  going  to  go  up  and  out. 
 It's  not  going  to  go  and  spread  out  into 
 this  guy  right  here.  So  just  to  sum  that 
 up  for  you  guys,  a  onegon  is  going  to  be 
 that  1  to  2  feet  away.  3  gallon  is  going 
 to  be  a  solid  2  ft  away.  And  then  that  7 
 gallon  is  going  to  be  that  two  to  threet 
 away  depending  on  the  plant  of  course. 
 Very,  very  good  information.  And  Bryce 
 also  mentioned  one  other  thing  off 
 camerara  is  all  of  these  plants,  not 
 only  do  they  work  together  as  a  good 
 combination,  but  they're  also  going  to 
 be  in  the  same  watering  pattern.  So, 
 this  is  not  going  to  be  something  where 
 you  have  to  water  this  one  a  different 
 way  versus  this  one.  All  of  these  are 
 going  to  be  able  to  maintain  and  live 
 off  the  same  watering  [music]  cycle.  And 
 I  think  that's  a  that's  a  big  important 
 thing  to  stress  because  so  many 
 different  tropical  plants  really  require 
 like  a  whole  a  whole  multitude  of 
 watering  options.  [music]  So,  when 
 you're  picking  material,  try  to  do  that. 
 That's  one  more  thing  that  I  did  mention 
 in  the  book.  I  know  I  keep  plugging  the 
 book,  you  guys.  It's  a  shameless  plug 
 [music]  because  I'm  so  very  excited  that 
 it's  out.  But  [laughter]  so,  but 
 definitely  when  you're  pulling  things 
 together,  I  [music]  try  to  mention  what 
 works  together  in  there,  but  I  I  don't 
 always  talk  about  watering.  So,  I'm  so 
 glad  that  he  brought  that  up,  especially 
 in  our  summer  months  here.  What  we  have 
 here  is  a  small  collection.  I  don't  want 
 any  of  this  material  to  overtake  the 
 falsab.  The  falsabave  is  meant  to  be  the 
 star  [music]  of  the  show.  So,  all  of 
 these  to  the  bottom  are  supposed  to 
 crown  around  it.  So  the  little  ruby 
 reds,  the  gold  mound,  the  little  touch 
 of  the  fire  orange  lantana.  I  just  love 
 these  compact  versions  of  Lantana.  These 
 Lantana  are  the  sterile  variety,  not  the 
 ones  that  travel  or  become  invasive.  So 
 if  you  guys  are  looking  in  the 
 nurseries,  try  to  find  those.  Lantana 
 has  a  tendency  to  kind  of  want  to  climb 
 and  and  creep  and  and  do  its  thing. 
 [music]  I  know  that's  the  native  variety 
 versus  the  the  maidana.  However,  what  I 
 do  like  about  these  is  they  just  kind  of 
 stay  put  where  you  want  them  and  they 
 don't  kind  of  travel.  And  considering 
 they  are  kind  of  a  little  toxic  to 
 animals,  especially  cows  and  fields  and 
 things  like  that,  we  want  to  try  to  keep 
 them  where  we're  using  the  sterile 
 variety  if  at  all  possible.  But  I  love 
 the  color  combination  they  offer.  They 
 offer  orange,  pinks,  reds,  yellows,  like 
 things  you  think  that  gosh,  is  that  just 
 too  much?  It's  not  not  going  to  go  well 
 together.  Well,  they  do.  Wait  till  they 
 get  big.  Right  now,  they're  babies.  But 
 when  they  get  big  and  poof  out,  all  of 
 that  color  comes  to  town.  And  then  it 
 pulls  together  other  color  groupings 
 that  you  have  in  the  garden.  I  mean,  we 
 have  the  touch  of  the  purples  and  the 
 burgundies.  [music] 
 We  got  the  touch  of  the  yellows  here.  We 
 got  touches  of  reds  in  the  back.  So,  you 
 know,  anything  that's  going  to  kind  of 
 continue  to  pull  those  colors  together. 
 Pop  in  some  of  that  variegation  there. 
 So,  when  you're  looking  at  this 
 particular  plant  because  this  is  a  new 
 landscape  and  you  might  be  like,  well, 
 these  gold  mount  are  going  to  outgrow 
 these  guys.  Not  the  case.  These  grow 
 gold  mount  are  going  to  be  kept  as  the 
 ground  cover  they're  meant  to  be  kept, 
 which  is  going  to  be  right  into  this 
 range  [music]  here.  And  then  these  guys 
 are  going  to  pop  up  behind  here  and  give 
 you  that  shine  of  color.  So  that's  why 
 we  only  have  three.  You  [music]  guys 
 know  if  there's  room  in  a  garden,  I'm  a 
 plant  filler.  I'll  pop  something  in 
 there  any  chance  I  get.  But  I  have  to 
 restrain  myself  cuz  I  do  know  in  the 
 future  it's  going  to  overgrow  the  space 
 [music]  if  we  put  too  many.  So  three  is 
 all  we  could  do  here  in  a  triangle 
 formation.  These  three  will  become  one 
 plant.  They  will  connect  together.  So 
 that's  what  we  want.  Like  a  little  poof 
 of  of  impact  on  either  side  of  this 
 plume  area.  And  we  have  one  a  collection 
 right  over  here.  So  a  nice  balance  of 
 that  color  right  next  to  a  two-toned 
 plumeriia.  This  plumeriia  tree  or 
 frangapi  depending  on  what  you  like  to 
 call  it  is  not  up  to  par.  I'm  going  to 
 get  Bryce  to  slide  in  a  picture  of  what 
 it  looked  like  just  the  week  before  we 
 planted  it.  We  got  tons  of  rain.  It  just 
 came  down  like  buckets.  And  those  of  you 
 guys  who  know  plumerias  know  that  they 
 do  not  appreciate  that  kind  of  rain  all 
 at  once.  They're  very,  very  opposed  to 
 it.  So,  they  dropped  90%  of  their  leaves 
 and  then  left  us  with  some  yellow  ones. 
 But  I  see  new  growth  coming  everywhere. 
 It's  going  to  pop  back  and  be  gorgeous. 
 This  is  a  tree  combination  that's  been 
 grafted  where  we  have  multiple  colors  in 
 one.  So,  we  have  pink  and  we  have  yellow 
 with  a  little  center  of  white  in  that 
 yellow  and  they're  it's  just  going  to 
 [music]  be  stunning.  So,  this  is  going 
 to  be  what  people  see  at  the  road. 
 They're  going to  see  the  falsab  [music] 
 that  cool  vibrant  kind  of  structure. 
 They're  going  to  see  the  antiloo  with 
 that  dark  dark  contrasting  tone.  [music] 
 And  then  above  as  a  taller  tier,  they're 
 going  to  see  this  wide  grouping  of  a 
 very  colorful  dark  green,  completely 
 different  kind  of  long  green  leaf  with 
 beautiful  pink  and  yellow  blooms  from 
 the  street.  And  just  this  little  section 
 alone,  if  they  were  just  to  do  a  little 
 island  like  this  [music]  by  itself,  I 
 think  would  be  a  stunner.  I  think  it 
 would  be  absolutely  gorgeous.  All right, 
 you  guys.  So,  this  is  where  the  garden 
 starts  to  take  shape.  So,  we  had  nice 
 pop  outs,  leaving  us  some  layers  over 
 there.  This  area,  I  needed  it  to  go  in  a 
 little  bit.  So  this  is  so  that  way  we 
 didn't  have  one  straight  narrow  garden. 
 We  have  room  for  loops.  So  when  you  have 
 that,  you  want  to  do  something  that's 
 going  to  allow  to  get  tall  and  vertical. 
 Nothing  that's  going  to  be 
 multi-layered,  but  still  give  you 
 [music]  some  fullness.  So  they're  going 
 to  let  these  kooias  get  six  to  8  foot 
 along  the  backside.  But  we  needed  some 
 color  to  the  front  to  jazz  up  the  kousia 
 and  a  different  leaf.  So  this  is  called 
 painted  lady  hibiscus.  I'll  get  Bryce  to 
 pop  in  a  picture  of  what  that  looks  like 
 when  it's  in  bloom.  The  blooms  are  a 
 beautiful  pink  coloring.  They  bloom  all 
 year  long.  Just  a  stunner  in  the  garden. 
 And  they're  smaller  blooms  on  the 
 hibiscus,  but  what  I  do  like  about  that 
 is  they  bloom  more  often.  So,  they're 
 going to  get  kind  of  a  nice  color.  And 
 all  we  had  room  for  is  a  linear  pattern 
 of  three  of  them.  So,  we  have  three 
 hibiscus  here.  Little  touch  at  the 
 bottom  of  the  ruby  reds  just  to  give  us 
 a  variation  and  tie  in  with  the  very 
 front  of  the  bed.  This  is  a  view  line 
 that  they  look  out.  They  said  they  never 
 had  these  blinds  open.  Now  they  are  wide 
 open.  They  wake  up  in  the  morning.  I 
 don't  know  if  there's  chairs  there  or 
 what  happens,  but  I  know  that  they  enjoy 
 [music]  and  they've  told  me  many  times 
 they've  enjoyed  just  looking  out  at  all 
 of  this  blast  of  color  outside  these 
 windows.  I  know  you  DIYers  and  I  get 
 this  all  the  time  where  clients  want  a 
 [music]  very  symmetrical  plan.  If  you've 
 got  an  agave  here,  if  you  got  a  a  palm 
 tree  here,  you  just  rinse  and  repeat 
 that.  And  I  am  a  rinse  and  repeat,  but 
 sometimes  you  need  symmetry  [music]  in  a 
 different  type  of  way.  So,  we  do  have 
 two  matching  agave.  One  starting  it  to 
 the  front  and  one  almost  at  the  ending 
 point  serving  as  a  centerpiece  over 
 here.  But  I  didn't  and  couldn't  use 
 another  plumeriia  tree  grouping  here  to 
 the  back  because  one  thing,  the  sun. 
 We've  got  these  oak  trees  to  contend 
 with  unfortunately.  Just  a  little  bit 
 more  shade  than  what  a  plumeriia  really 
 likes.  Plumerias  for  them  to  really 
 stand  out  and  grow  really  well.  They 
 love  love  love  the  sun.  What  can  handle 
 that  and  bloom  super  super  well  are 
 going  to  be  these  bottle  brush  trees. 
 This  is  the  standard  variety,  the 
 lollipop  shape,  the  ones  that  you  can 
 keep  nice  and  rounded  just  like  a 
 lollipop.  So,  I've  chose  three  of  these 
 because  now  this  part  of  the  bed, 
 although  it  has  the  same  color  pattern 
 as  what  we  have  over  there,  it  is  a 
 different  view  line.  It  is  something 
 that  we  were  able  to  get  just  have  a 
 little  bit  more  interest  in.  [music]  So 
 instead  of  thinking  of  it  as  one  solid 
 structure  or  one  solid  island,  kind  of 
 think  about  the  purpose  and  the  reason 
 for  it.  This  up  here  obviously  is 
 [music]  for  the  road.  It's  for  the  view 
 line.  It's  for  the  front  door.  It's  for 
 when  people  come  to  the  driveway,  this 
 is  what  they're  going  to  see.  So  that  is 
 going  to  be  very  important  for  it  to 
 have  a  nice  layered  look.  However, 
 [music]  that  doesn't  mean  that  we  can't 
 get  taller.  So  this  is  going  to  be 
 taller  than  that  chunky  plumeriia  in  the 
 back.  You're  going  to  see  this  from  the 
 road,  but  you're  also  going  to  see  this 
 [music]  as  coverage.  These  three  trees 
 are  in  a  triangle  formation.  They're 
 going  to  almost  grow  together.  They  will 
 turn  out  to  be  five  to  six  foot  of 
 circular  heads  at  the  top.  So,  you'll 
 have  6  foot  wide  lollipops  here  [music] 
 as  a  beautiful  green  coloration,  nice 
 texture  of  leaf  with  beautiful  red  red 
 blooms.  So,  those  bottle  brush  blooms 
 are  stunning.  Now,  we're  missing  them 
 right  here  in  fall.  They  do  bloom  all 
 spring,  actually  late  winter,  all 
 spring,  and  in  all  summer  long.  So, 
 we're  just  out  of  the  blooming  cycle 
 now,  but  oh  my  goodness,  during  the  most 
 of  the  year,  they're  absolute  stunners. 
 And  they  take  no  room  in  the  garden.  You 
 kind  of  see  because  they're  the  compact 
 variety,  I'm  not  worried  about  them 
 spilling  out  way  over  here  where  they're 
 [music]  touching  the  house.  No,  they're 
 going  to  kind  of  come  around  here  and 
 give  us  a  nice  rounded  feel.  Very  easy 
 to  [music]  maintain  these  guys.  So,  if 
 you  like  this  kind  of  leaf  structure  and 
 you  got  other  contrasting  leaves,  then 
 don't  sleep  on  the  bottle  brush.  I  just 
 love  them.  If  you  have  a  little  bit  more 
 room  and  want  a  little  bit  more  pizzazz, 
 then  hit  the  weeping  ones.  They  kind  of 
 give  you  a  little  bit  of  a  weeping 
 willow  kind  of  feel.  So,  it's  a  little 
 dreamier,  but  you  definitely  need  more 
 room  for  that  particular  tree.  In 
 standard,  these  are  30-gallon  trees,  and 
 I  usually  put  them  anywhere  between  7 
 and  10t  apart,  just  depending  on  how  big 
 that  tree  canopy  is.  If  it's  a  weeping, 
 definitely  10  foot  apart.  If  it's  a 
 standard  like  this,  it  can  go  as  close 
 as  7  foot  apart.  However,  there's  a 
 caveat  with  that.  Underground  utilities, 
 irrigation  lines,  or  big  mama  oak  trees. 
 Those  roots  on  those  trees  were  no  joke. 
 This  is  the  neighbors  yard.  So, there's 
 nothing  we  can  do  about  the  overhang  of 
 the  trees  here.  So,  what  we've  got  is 
 we've  got  a  couple  trees  a  little  offc 
 center  just  because  we  had  to  work  with 
 what  we're  working  with.  So,  right  here 
 I  have  a  little  collection  of  three 
 thrielis.  Now,  thrielis  are  going  to  do 
 what?  hibiscus  do.  They're  going  to  kind 
 of  come  up.  They're  going  to  give  you  a 
 little  bit  of  a  woody  bottom,  but  the 
 top  of  these  yellow  blooms,  the  top  of 
 those  leaves  are  going  to  [music]  be 
 stunners.  If  you  only  have  room  for  one 
 row  of  something,  don't  use  thrielis. 
 [music]  Thrielis  are  too  woody  at  the 
 bottom  because  that's  all  you'll  see  is 
 the  wood  at  the  base.  If  you  have  room 
 for  a  skirt  to  go  underneath  of  it, 
 thrielis  all  day  long.  They're  gorgeous. 
 They're  easy  to  care  for.  They  bloom  all 
 year  long.  I  mean,  even  in  the  fall, 
 they  bloom.  summer,  fall,  spring. 
 They're  really  fabulous  to  work  with. 
 They  need  filtered  light  to  full  sun. 
 That's  their  favorite  option.  But  they 
 can  handle  all  of  the  acid  dropping  from 
 these  [music]  oak  tree  leaves.  So, 
 they're  going  to  do  perfectly  fine  in 
 this  environment.  Keep  in  mind,  right 
 now,  everything  is  layered  perfectly. 
 But  when  these  get  to  the  back,  get  to 
 be  6t  or  so,  then  we're  going  to  have 
 lower  plantings.  You're  really  going  to 
 see  that  variation  come  to  life  when  the 
 kucia  connect  and  become  the  wall.  And 
 that's  one  of the  best  parts  about  using 
 a  hedge  like  a  kousia,  like  a  green 
 buttonwood,  like  a  podocarpus,  is  you 
 can  manipulate  your  wall,  your  green 
 wall  space  into  whatever  size  you  want 
 it  to  be.  Unlike  a  palm  tree  where 
 you're  kind  of  just  going  to  have  to 
 wait  and  it's  going to  grow  and  do  its 
 thing,  a  wall,  a  rear  wall  of  a  hedge 
 planting,  you  can  maintain  it  whatever 
 size  it's  going  to  suit  your  particular 
 island.  So,  I  love  Kucia  for  that 
 because  they  they  really  let  you  play 
 around  and  and  work  in  your  space 
 instead  of  you  having  to  work  with 
 theirs.  And  then  all  you  have  to  worry 
 about  doing  is  making  sure  that  you 
 dress  up  [music]  in  front  of  the  green 
 wall.  So  your  green  screen  is  there. 
 Layer  in  some  variations  of  colors  or 
 different  textures.  If  you  like  multi 
 greens,  go  with  multi  greens.  Use 
 foxtail  ferns  for  that  chartreuse 
 [music] 
 green.  Use  something  like  Xanadoo  for  a 
 different  kind  of  shaped  green.  Use 
 something  like  this  kind  of  leaf  that 
 really  gives  you  more  of  a  northern  type 
 of  needle  feel  of  of  that  kind  of  green 
 against  a  big  shiny  leaf  like  a  kucia. 
 Sometimes  it's  the  contrast  of  of  the 
 leaf  more  so  than  the  contrast  of  the 
 color  that  gives  you  that  wow,  like  what 
 what's  going  on  there?  What  gives  you 
 that  interest?  And  that  can  be  done  in 
 as  small  as  a  5ft  bed.  I  mean,  you  don't 
 need  a  lot  of  space.  And  that's  kind  of 
 why  I  always  try  to  stress  that  in  the 
 videos  because  it's  not  about  how  much 
 room  you  have.  It's  what  you're  working 
 with  and  how  you're  working  with  it.  All 
 right,  you  guys.  So,  we  are  in  the  last 
 loop.  So,  this  offers  is  kind  of  like 
 the  centerpiece  from  the  window  line. 
 So,  this  is  kind  of  what  my  clients  are 
 looking  out  from  their  bedroom  windows. 
 So,  we've  got  the  false  agave  as  you're 
 like,  "Hello."  This  is  something  you  can 
 see  easily  from  the  road  and  obviously 
 something  they  can  see  from  the  windows 
 there,  too.  [music]  And  then  we've  got  a 
 little  clustering  of  dwarf  alamandas. 
 These  dwarf  alamandas  are  just  stunners. 
 I  love  love  love  them  in  a  garden.  They 
 can  handle  filter  light.  They  can  handle 
 full  sun.  They  don't  like  shade,  so  you 
 want  to  kind  of  stay  away  from  that.  But 
 they  can  handle  the  acid  from  leaves, 
 pine  needles,  anything  like  that.  They 
 can  be  in  an  acidic  environment  and 
 [music]  be  super  super  happy.  So,  I  just 
 have  a  little  bit  of  grouping,  just  kind 
 of  a  swath  of  them  because  we're  looking 
 all  the  way  down  to  the  end  of  the  bed. 
 At  any  time,  you're  almost  your  eye  is 
 traveling  all  the  way  to  the  back.  If 
 you  can  end  that  back  with  something 
 like  a  blooming  plant  like  this,  or  if 
 it's  in  the  shade  and  you  need  to  do 
 something  like  a  java  white  copper  leaf 
 or  a  trinette,  something  that  has  a 
 light  tone,  then  there's  something  that 
 attracts  you  to  almost  want  to  walk  all 
 the  way  down  to  the  end  of  that  bed, 
 something  that's  drawing  you  out.  And  so 
 that's  the  goal.  You  want  to  have  enough 
 dark  and  light,  dark  and  light,  dark  and 
 light,  but  end  it  in  that  darker  area 
 with  a  light  pattern  or  a  light  bloom 
 because,  you  know,  makes  you  want  to 
 say,  "Oh,  what  what's  happening  over 
 there?"  Hello,  ladies.  [music]  And,  you 
 know,  I  wouldn't  mind  coming  to  visit 
 these  gorgeous  girls  here.  And  then 
 right  to  the  front  of  those  are  going  to 
 be  just  a  little  swath  of  the  Lantas. 
 So,  these  are  the  compact  again  variety 
 lantas.  They're  the  orange,  the  pink, 
 the  red.  I  think  they're  called  neon.  I 
 always  forget  they  seem  like  they  change 
 in  every  nursery  depending  on  what 
 nursery  they  go  to.  So  just  ask  them  for 
 the  orange  and  the  pink  and  the  red 
 pastel  coloring  too.  That's  called 
 anmarie.  That  is  really  nice.  So  if 
 that's  more  your  vibe,  if  you're  more  of 
 a  softer  tones  versus  the  darker  deeper 
 tones,  anmarie's  [music] 
 they're  awesome  too.  And  then  we  just 
 ended  it  with  the  dark  colorations. 
 Alamandas  and  the  antiloo's  are  a  great 
 contrast.  And  that's  our  like  finale. 
 That's  [music]  where  we  started.  We 
 started  with  the  beautiful  clustering  of 
 antiloo,  ended  with  a  beautiful 
 clustering  of  antiloo,  and  voila,  we 
 have  a  very  well-formed  bed  that  suits 
 [music]  the  objective.  This  is  your 
 buffer.  This  is  what  they  wanted  to  see. 
 This  is  where  they  wanted  to  see 
 concealment  and  color  and  interest.  Up 
 at  the  front,  [music]  it's  for  the 
 neighbors.  It's  for  the  guests  that  come 
 in.  And  maybe  in  the  future,  this  will 
 become  the  perfect  walkway  into  their 
 secret  garden.  cuz  by  then  it  really 
 will  be  pretty  secret  with  the  6  to  8  ft 
 rear  wall  and  all  of  this  layered  color 
 to  the  front.  So  this  will  definitely  be 
 an  inviting  walkway  space  to  to  work  in. 
 But  you  guys,  before  I  let  you  go,  I 
 wanted  to  showcase  our  lovely  Venowite 
 style,  our  book  here.  This  is  our  book 
 that's  just  recently  come  out  this  past 
 weekend.  I  know  a  lot  of  you  guys  are 
 grabbing  it  up  on  Amazon.  I  want  to 
 thank  you  so  so  very  much.  Amazon  tells 
 us  that  the  first  30  days  of  reviews  is 
 hugely  important.  So,  those  of  you  guys 
 who  have  bought  the  book  to  transform 
 your  own  gardens  or  maybe  you  bought  it 
 for  just  support  because  you  enjoy  these 
 [music]  videos  for  all  these  years.  Both 
 ways,  I  want  to  thank  you  so  much  and  I 
 ask  you  to  please  write  a  quick  review 
 of  what  you  thought  of  the  book  because 
 it  [music]  helps  Bryce  and  I 
 tremendously.  This  is  something  that  we 
 wrote  together  jointly.  It's  something 
 we  are  super  [music] 
 proud  of.  It  talks  about  plants,  trees, 
 combination  plants  and  trees,  places 
 they  love  to  live  together.  50  of  the 
 toughest  Florida  tropicals  that  I  use 
 every  single  day  in  different  gardens, 
 just  exactly  where  they  love  to  be 
 planted  in  a  garden.  I  am  just  so  very 
 thrilled  with  it.  I'm  hoping  you  guys 
 enjoy  it  as  much  as  Bryce  and  I  did 
 writing  it.  I  am  very,  very  pleased  with 
 how  the  book  has  come  together  and  I 
 hope  it  makes  it  to  your  garden  and  it 
 helps  you  guys  tremendously.  I  want  to 
 thank  all  of  you  true  gardeners  out 
 there  who  have  purchased  one. 
 >> Thank  you. 
 >> And  Bryce  says  thank  you  as  well.  I  will 
 see  you  in  next  week's  video.  Thank  you 
 so  much.  Take  care,  y'all.

---

 [music]  Well,  hello  gardeners.  Welcome 
 back.  So,  you  guys  are  getting  ready  to 
 start  your  garden  and  you're  wondering 
 what  to  do  first.  Well,  today's  video  is 
 about  five  [music]  key  essential  things 
 that  I  do  when  I'm  looking  at  a  new 
 space  for  a  new  garden.  Doing  these  five 
 things  before  you  start  putting  that 
 first  plant  in  the  tree  in  the  ground, 
 before  you  go  to  that  nursery  and  get 
 all  the  fun  stuff  done.  These  things  are 
 going  to  save  you  time,  money,  [music] 
 and  quite  a  bit  of  a  headache.  I've  been 
 doing  this  for  well  over  25  years  now.  I 
 am  a  landscape  designer,  and  I  do  this 
 for  my  clients  every  single  week.  We 
 transform  outdoor  spaces,  front  yards, 
 backyards,  landscape  design  and 
 installation.  So,  these  are  things  that 
 I  run  across  so  very  often.  And  what  I 
 notice  is  a  lot  of  times  the  original 
 landscape  on  a  home  maybe  wasn't  set  up 
 so  bad,  but  because  of  some  of these 
 things  that  got  missed  in  the  landscape, 
 it  really  caused  harm.  and  things  had  to 
 be  ripped  out  and  removed  and  changed 
 just  because  these  few  things  haven't 
 been  done.  So,  I  thought  it  was 
 important  enough  [music]  to  make  a  video 
 today  to  share  those  key  things  that  I 
 keep  seeing  over  and  over  and  over  again 
 in  [music]  hopes  that  this  is  going  to 
 help  you  guys  help  you  DIYers  out  there 
 to  kind  of  get  this  handled  right  off 
 the  bat.  [music]  So,  let's  jump  right 
 in.  All  right,  for  the  first  tip  and  the 
 first  thing  to  consider  in  your  garden 
 is  if  you've  decided  where  you're  going 
 to  have  your  landscape  beds  and  it  might 
 interfere  with  some  drainage  issues.  you 
 know,  say  it's  your  gutter  line  or  the 
 corner  of  your  house,  water  kind  of 
 really  kind  of  cascades  over  in  this 
 area,  you  definitely  want  to  consider 
 what  you're  going  to  use  in  that 
 particular  spot.  Make  sure  it  is  a  tough 
 plant.  But  most  importantly,  if  you  can, 
 if  it's  in  your  budget  or  if  it's 
 something  that  you  want  to  do  prior  to  a 
 landscape  company  coming  out,  attach 
 just  like  we  did  here,  attach  a  pipe  to 
 the  gutter  itself  [music] 
 and  then  bring  it  right  out  into  the 
 lowest  section  of  the  yard.  This  is  a 
 pretty  good  example  here  cuz  you  guys 
 can  really  see  the  elevation  pitch.  Not 
 always  do  we  have  this  much  [music]  an 
 extreme  pitch,  but  it  is  ideal  to  make 
 sure  that  you  can  take  that  line  all  the 
 way  out  into  [music]  the  lowest  section 
 of  the  garden  because  now  this  is  the 
 area  that  water  is  going  to  gravitate 
 to.  This  is  the  area  that  is  going  to 
 overflow  [music]  with  water.  We  use  an 
 emitter  at  the  very  end  of  our  pipe. 
 It's  kind  of like  a  sprinkler  [music] 
 head.  It  pops  up  um  when  water  pressure 
 is  inside  and  then  just  releases.  It's 
 an  [music]  ideal  thing  to  know  that  when 
 we  get  those  heavy  cascading  rains  and 
 I've  got  a  metal  roof,  that  water  really 
 just  comes  off  of  that  like  crazy  that  I 
 know  that  this  is  going  to  be  outside 
 not  only  my  pavers,  [music]  but  it's 
 going  to  be  outside  my  landscape  bed 
 into  the  grass  line.  So,  when  you're 
 planning  for  your  garden,  you  don't  have 
 to  worry  about  raising  your  landscape 
 bed  up  too  high  because  there's  already 
 kind  of  a  water  level  here.  What's  ideal 
 about  that  is  that  you  can  make  sure 
 that  your  landscaping  is  has  dry  feet. 
 Sorry,  Red  says  hello  you  guys.  The  your 
 landscaping  itself  has  dry  feet  because 
 all  the  water  is  now  going  to  go  exactly 
 where  you  tell  it  to  go.  It's  going  to 
 go  exactly  to  that  spot,  that  lowest 
 section  of  the  yard.  If  you  guys  can  do 
 that  before  your  landscaper  is  there, 
 great.  If  you,  you  know,  if  it's  not  in 
 your  wheelhouse,  then  and  you  have  the 
 budget  for  it,  then  definitely  make  that 
 a  part  of  your  landscape  package  because 
 that's  an  ideal  thing  to  do  just  to  make 
 sure  all  the  way  around  your  house, 
 you've  collected  that  water  and  gotten 
 it  outside  those  beds  before  the  first 
 plant  or  tree  ever  goes  into  the  ground. 
 For  the  second  [music]  tip,  edging.  Will 
 you  be  needing  landscaping  edging  as 
 part  of  your  project?  [music]  Now,  I 
 have  met  with  a  lot  of  clients.  I  get 
 this  question  all  the  time.  Depending  on 
 the  type  of  landscape  style,  [music] 
 there  are  three  kind  of  reasons  why  you 
 would  be  needing  landscape  edging  in  and 
 you  want  to  kind  of  keep  that  in 
 consideration  [music]  because  it  is 
 going  to  be  part  of  your  budget.  So,  the 
 first  reason  that  I  would  say  if  we're 
 going  to  do  a  landscape  bed  for  you  and 
 we  are  going  to  install  stone,  then  you 
 absolutely  want  some  type  of  edging.  I 
 have  edging  defining  different  types  of 
 [music]  stone  that  we're  working  with. 
 So,  if  you're  going  to  divide  rock  from 
 mulch  or  rock  from  grass,  you  definitely 
 want  a  nice  defined  edge  border  that's 
 really  going  to  hold  everything  into 
 place.  It  is  super  important  to  kind  of 
 have  a  good  edging  for  that.  When  your 
 landscaping  ground  cover  is  stone,  then 
 you're  really  going  to  need  to  have 
 something  that's  going  to  define  and 
 kind  of  give  yourself  a  barrier  for  when 
 your  maintenance  guy  or  [music]  maybe 
 you  do  it  yourself  come  along  through 
 and  edge  that  area.  Because  if  he  tries 
 to  edge  it  without  an  edger  in  place, 
 that's  when  that  rock  goes  everywhere. 
 So  having  that  defining  line  really 
 makes  sure  that  heat  edges  along  the 
 edging,  not  necessarily  [music]  the 
 stone  itself.  The  second  time  to  be 
 using  edging  is  if  you're  having  a  mulch 
 bed.  [music]  Say  we're  doing  a 
 landscaping  and  you're  going  to  do  a 
 mulch  ground  cover.  You  don't  always 
 need  edging  for  that,  but  a  lot  of  times 
 what  I  found  is  it's  [music]  a  great  way 
 to  kind  of  keep  the  bed  from  expanding 
 over  time.  Now,  you  guys  have  seen  lawn 
 maintenance  guys  do  this  where,  you 
 know,  you'll  have  a  maybe  a  six-foot 
 [music] 
 little  area,  a  looped  bed  planting,  and 
 then  over  the  year  because  you  can't 
 kind  of  find  the  line  that's  defined, 
 [music]  the  line  gets  bigger  and  bigger 
 and  bigger,  and  that  six  foot  turns  into 
 15t  over  a  year,  and  you're  like,  "Huh, 
 that  bed  really  grew  on  its  own."  That's 
 exactly  how  it  happens.  So,  having  a  a 
 defined  edge  line  doesn't  mean  that  the 
 guy's  not  going  to  edge  or  you're  not 
 going to  edge  over  time.  It  just  gives 
 you  that  fine  line  to  edge  along.  So 
 that  way  you  always  have  a  nice  form 
 fitting  bed,  you  know,  the  outline  of 
 it.  So  having  a  nice  defined  edging  for 
 that  is  is  ideal.  And  for  the  last 
 reason,  it's  strictly  aesthetic  appeal. 
 Let  me  kind  of  show  you  what  I  mean  on 
 that  one.  So  as  you  guys  saw  that  I  have 
 the  aluminum  alloy  edging  separating  the 
 rock  patterns  here.  But  as  we  get  into 
 this,  I  love  the  rustic  charm  of  a 
 boulder  edge.  Now  this  is  a  small 
 handheld  boulder  edge  that  we've  leveled 
 out  because  I  needed  to  have  a  little 
 bit  of  a  rise.  is  this  everything  in 
 this  particular  bed  needs  additional 
 drainage.  So,  I  needed  a  little  bit  of  a 
 a  height  line  here.  So,  we  kind  of 
 created  [music]  a  retaining  wall.  Now, 
 you  can  do  this  with  boulders,  you  can 
 do  this  with  coina,  you  can  do  this  with 
 stack  stone.  There's  so  many  different 
 ways.  Whatever  your  aesthetic  is,  it's 
 an  ideal  thing  to  do  just  to  kind  of 
 give  you  a  different  little  bit  of 
 elevation  in  the  garden.  [music] 
 And  then,  of  course,  my  other  edging  is 
 the  Buda  edging.  I  love  how  I  have  so 
 many  different  varieties  of  edgings  in 
 the  garden  because  I  feel  like  that 
 contrast  [music]  makes  for  an 
 interesting  space.  It's  like,  oh,  what's 
 going  on  here?  And  just  when  you  think 
 you  got  it  figured  out,  now  you've  got  a 
 kind  of  a  a  different  look.  You  might 
 have  one  more  more  seamless,  one  more 
 clean  lines,  one  [music]  more  rustic. 
 And  having  that  kind  of  all  pulled 
 together,  I  think  is  ideal  in  any  type 
 of  gardening  space.  I  [music]  think  it 
 adds  to  that  look  with  something  that 
 doesn't  require  any  maintenance.  So 
 [music]  something  that's  actually  doing 
 the  job  for  you  in  the  garden.  Edging  is 
 definitely  something  to  consider  because 
 it  is  something  that's  going  to  be  part 
 of  your  price  point  [music]  and  it's  a 
 forever  piece.  It's  a  piece  that  once 
 it's  in,  once  it's  done,  that  is  now  a 
 part  of  your  gardens.  Definitely 
 consider  that  when  you're  putting 
 together  kind  of  your  garden  plans  and 
 especially  if  you're  thinking  about  some 
 different  elevations. 
 All  right,  for  the  third  tip  today  is 
 eradicating  those  weeds  in  the  garden 
 while  there  is  nothing  there.  So,  if  you 
 guys  haven't  started  your  garden  yet, 
 this  is  the  ideal  time  to  kind  of  get  to 
 a  fresh  start,  [music]  a  blank  slate  as 
 you  have  it.  If  you  have  weeds  in  your 
 garden  and  they're  an  aggressive  weed, 
 [music]  definitely  eliminate  them  right 
 off  the  bat.  Give  yourself  time.  Don't 
 rush  the  new  planting.  Make  sure  that 
 you  treat  the  weeds.  Whatever  your 
 method  is,  whether  you  use  a  natural 
 product  or  you  use  a  herbicide,  you  want 
 to  make  sure  that  you've  eliminated 
 those  pockets  of  weeds  through  that 
 space.  And  then  you  want  to  give  it  a 
 little  bit  more  time.  So  each  weed  seed 
 going  [music]  from  a  seed  itself  to  a 
 new  weed  is  about  15  days.  So  maybe 
 every  10  days  to  2  weeks,  it's  a  really 
 good  idea  just  to  kind  of  come  through 
 and  either  pick  or  pull  or  spray  [music] 
 those  weeds  until  you've  got  a  nice 
 clean  bed.  Because  if  you  do  that  now, 
 then  now  when  your  new  plantings  come 
 in,  you're  not  fighting  that.  You're  not 
 having  the  headache  of  trying  to  pull 
 those  weeds  in  between  all  your  new 
 plantings  because  you've  got  now  a  clean 
 soil,  a  clean  base  to  work  with.  So,  I'm 
 actually  facing  that  with  a  client  right 
 now  where  his  existing  landscape  has 
 just  kind  of  been  taken  over  with  a 
 really  aggressive  [music]  weeds  and  he 
 wants  to  go  back  in  with  a  clean  line 
 landscape  and  I  think  that  it's  going  to 
 be  absolutely  stunning  for  his  property. 
 But  I  told  him  if  he's  not  in  too  big  of 
 a  hurry,  let's  do  [music]  it  this  way 
 first.  Even  though  I  had  a  booking 
 availability  in  three  weeks,  we  pushed 
 [music]  him  out  to  six  weeks.  So  that 
 way  we  can  treat  the  area,  get  it  real 
 good  and  free  [music]  of  weeds.  And  that 
 way,  whatever  he's  dealing  with  in  the 
 future  into  those  beds,  it's  just  what's 
 been  dropped  from  seedlings.  It's  not 
 something  that's  already  in  the  ground, 
 something  that's  going  to  be  tilled  and 
 turned  and  and  new  weeds  popping  up 
 through  the  garden  because  that  is  a 
 giant  headache,  especially  when  you  have 
 new  plantings  that  are  just  starting  to 
 grow  in.  You  don't  want  to  have  weeds 
 that  are  growing  in  just  as  fast  because 
 think  of  this.  Now  that  this  area  is  now 
 going  to  be  planted,  it's  got  good  new 
 soil  put  in.  It's  been  fertilized.  It's 
 getting  adequate  water.  So,  think  about 
 what's  going  to  grow  faster,  your  weeds 
 or  your  landscaping.  So,  if  you  can 
 eradicate  them  right  off  the  bat,  just 
 just  [music]  get  them  out  and  over  with, 
 right?  [laughter]  Sorry,  Red  Red  really 
 wants  to  be  in  today's  video,  you  guys. 
 That  is  something  super  [music]  super 
 important.  So,  kind  of  get  that  right 
 off  the  bat.  And  then  you're  going  to  be 
 so  happy  with  just  maintaining  your 
 garden  over  the  long  term  [music] 
 because  you  have  made  it  a  weed-free 
 zone.  Or  you  can  do  it  what  I've  done 
 here  where  I've  done  a  compilation 
 [music]  of  plant  groupings  where  it's  a 
 big  thick  layered  layout.  So  although  I 
 did  have  to  battle  the  weeds  initially 
 [music]  when  we  first  came  into  the 
 garden,  now  that  everything's 
 established,  everything's  grown  in,  all 
 the  ground  cover  is  in,  there's  no  light 
 underneath.  You  know,  it's  kind  of  like 
 a  ground  forest.  I  don't  have  to  worry 
 about  weeds  coming  in  because  I  don't 
 have  anything  exposed.  [music]  So, 
 that's  another  way  to  keep  things  low 
 maintenance.  The  first  way,  of  course, 
 is  to  get  rid  of  the  weeds  all  from  the 
 beginning.  And  the  second  way,  if  you  do 
 like  that  kind  of  jungle  inspired  type 
 of  vibe,  then  leave  no  ground  [music] 
 untouched.  Make  sure  that  everything  is 
 covered.  And  then  that's  really  going  to 
 help  you  long  [music]  term  from  any  kind 
 of  weed  or  seedlings  popping  up  from 
 under  the  ground.  So, 
 >> so  guys,  I  will  be  taking  over  tip  four. 
 And  tip  four  is  knowing  your  soil  and 
 knowing  your  plant  pallet.  Now,  knowing 
 your  soil  is  important  because  it  lets 
 you  know  what  your  garden  is  deficient 
 in.  All  you  need  to  do  is  get  a  soil 
 sample  and  send  that  to  your  local 
 extension  office  or  I  believe  the 
 University  of  Florida  does  it  as  well. 
 You  can  just  send  it  in.  They  give  you 
 the  results  back  of  what  your  yard  is 
 deficient  in.  Or  an  alternative  option 
 is  driving  through  your  neighborhood  and 
 seeing  what  does  well  in  other  people's 
 yards.  A  lot  of  the  times  neighborhoods 
 share  similar  soil  backfield  from  when 
 the  neighborhood  was  first  created. 
 That's  one  of  the  first  things  that  I  do 
 when  I  meet  with  somebody  for  a  design 
 is  I  take  a  quick  10-minute  trip  around 
 the  neighborhood  and  I  mark  out  what 
 does  well  [music]  in  the  neighboring 
 houses.  So,  whenever  I'm  meeting  with 
 them,  I'm  saying,  "Oh,  I've  seen  this 
 [music]  flourish.  This  one  does  really 
 well.  It  grows  very  tall,  very  strong." 
 And  for  those  of  you  guys  who  are  also 
 new  to  Florida,  this  is  a  great  tip. 
 Maybe  you're  not  familiar  with  the  USDA 
 zones.  What  can  survive  here?  What 
 cannot?  [music]  You're  seeing  this 
 video.  this  is  in  10  A  and  you're  in 
 zone  9b.  The  best  way  I  could  say  figure 
 [music]  out  what  works  well  in  your  area 
 is  to  drive  around,  see  what's 
 flourishing,  and  then  just  and  add  that 
 to  your  plant  pallet,  your  shopping  list 
 for  your  future  garden.  And  by  seeing 
 what's  doing  well  and  what's 
 flourishing,  [music] 
 you're  able  to  go  and  then  research  what 
 does  well  in  the  same  soil  type.  Or 
 shameful  plug,  by  the  way,  you  can  just 
 get  our  book  and  it  tells  all  that 
 information.  It  should  be  down  in  the 
 link  in  the  description.  gives  50  hearty 
 plants  in  South  Florida  as  [music]  well 
 as  some  companion  plants  that  like  to 
 live  together. 
 >> All  right,  you  guys.  So,  right  before  we 
 get  into  our  next  tip,  I  did  forget 
 [music]  to  say  please  like,  subscribe. 
 If  this  is  your  kind  of  content,  this  is 
 your  kind  of  jam  and  this  is  the  type  of 
 videos  that  you  like  to  see  and  you  are 
 researching  to  do  your  very  own  garden, 
 then  please  check  us  out  every  week.  We 
 put  a  video  up  every  single  Saturday  and 
 we  would  love  to  see  you  as  part  of  our 
 true  gardener  community.  So,  thank  you 
 [music]  guys  true  gardeners  out  there. 
 But  for  our  last  tip  today  is  create  a 
 landscape  plan.  And  it  doesn't  have  to 
 be  anything  super  elaborate.  If  you  have 
 a  site  plan  or  if  you  have  a  plot  plan 
 of  your  house,  kind  of  start  sketching 
 things  out  before  you  hit  that  nursery 
 run,  before  [laughter]  you  go  to  the 
 nursery  and  pick  everything  beautiful 
 there  and  then  start  your  planning  like 
 a  weekend  warrior  out  there.  Definitely 
 put  some  time  into  creating  a  landscape 
 plan  [music]  for  yourself.  There  is  a 
 good  system  to  follow.  I'm  going  to  link 
 my  video  down  below  of  levels  and  kind 
 [music]  of  how  you  start  with  kind  of 
 creating  walls  and  roof  lines  and  then, 
 you  know,  building  upon  the  landscaping 
 if  [music]  this  is  the  type  of  look  that 
 you  guys  like.  And  I'll  also  link 
 Bryce's  video  on  how  to  create  a 
 tropical  [music]  backyard  from  scratch. 
 Now,  this  is  going  to  be  with  our 
 landscape  software,  but  the  fundamentals 
 are  the  same  if  you  just  kind  of  follow 
 along  those  guidelines.  Then  if  this  is 
 a  type  of  garden  that  you  like,  if 
 you're  more  into  the  retreat  style 
 gardens,  [music]  that's  going  to  be 
 something  that's  going  to  help  kind  of 
 give  you  a,  you  know,  a  forefront,  kind 
 of  give  you  a  little  bit  of  a  head  start 
 on  where  to  start  and  then  you  can  kind 
 of  go  nursery  shopping  and  and  add  all 
 the  fun  stuff  to  it.  But  [music] 
 creating  something  like  that  really 
 gives  you  a  road  map  of  exactly  where 
 you  start  and  where  you  end  up  is  going 
 to  be  exactly  where  where  you  want  both 
 to  be.  Then  for  those  of  you  guys  who 
 need  a  little  bit  more  than  inspiration 
 [music]  here,  you're  needing  a  little 
 bit  more  than  the  research  that  you're 
 creating  and  would  love  to  have  a  design 
 done  for  you,  then  your  girl  here  is  a 
 landscape  designer  and  we  provide 
 landscape  designs  for  most  of  Florida. 
 We  do  virtual  consults  for  all  of 
 Florida  and  then  we  do  landscape  design 
 and  installation  for  along  the  Treasure 
 and  Space  Coast.  So,  we're  happy  to  meet 
 with  you  if  any  of  those  services  are 
 something  that  you're  looking  for. 
 Having  a  really  good  detailed  eye  on 
 where  you're  going  in  your  garden  is 
 going  to  save  you  tons  in  the  future. 
 And  if  you  guys  have  visited  the 
 nurseries,  then  you  know  landscaping  is 
 expensive.  So  having  it  done  right  the 
 first  time,  really  working  through  these 
 videos  and  doing  your  research  and  doing 
 your  background  and  picking  landscape 
 designers  brains  and  you  know  you're 
 getting  25  years  plus  of  [music] 
 experience  of  what  I've  come  across. 
 Every  single  video  I  try  to  put  impart  a 
 little  bit  of  my  knowledge  and  [music] 
 my  mistakes  and  I  hope  that  that  comes 
 across  on  these  videos  so  that  way  you 
 guys  can  take  those  tools  and  get  it 
 right  the  first  time  because  that  is  a 
 deal  breaker  when  it  comes  to  [music] 
 gardening.  Gardening  is  hard  enough  and 
 if  we  can  make  it  easier  on  ourselves 
 [music]  then  let's  do  it.  Thank  you  guys 
 so  much.  Please  link  whatever  tip  helped 
 you  the  most  and  [music]  if  there's 
 anything  that  did  help  you  a  ton  as 
 you're  working  through  your  landscape 
 process  [music]  please  put  it  in  the 
 comments  down  below.  those  true 
 gardeners  that  are  coming  to  Florida  or 
 young  at  gardening,  those  are  the  things 
 that  are  going  to  help  them  tremendously 
 be  successful  [music]  in  a  Florida 
 garden.  So,  thank  you  guys  so  much  for 
 taking  the  time  to  do  that  because  it  is 
 so  truly  helpful.  Well,  if  you  enjoyed 
 today's  video,  I  will  be  sure  to  link 
 Bryce's  video  right  over  here  of 
 creating  a  landscape  design.  And  I  hope 
 to  see  you  guys  next  weekend.  Take  care.

---

 All  right,  you  guys.  Hello,  true 
 gardener.  So,  it's  time.  You  are  ready 
 to  get  rid  of  what's  in  the  front  yard 
 or  jazz  it  up,  make  it  more  interesting, 
 whatever  the  case  may  be,  but  you're 
 looking  to  create  a  lowmaintenance  front 
 yard  garden.  Well,  today's  video  is  all 
 about  that.  It  is  all  about 
 lowmaintenance,  easy  care,  but 
 interesting  features.  Because 
 lowmaintenance  should  not  mean  boring, 
 should  not  mean  no  color,  no  impact.  I 
 think  it  it  should  be  the  exact 
 opposite.  I  think  you  should  have 
 interesting  features,  but  just  kind  of 
 bring  some  material  in,  combinations 
 that  are  going  to  work  really  well 
 together  and  live  together  long  term  and 
 things  that  you  can  maintain  on  a 
 quarterly  basis  and  be  super  super  happy 
 with  a  small  front  garden.  This  front  of 
 the  house  is  not  very  deep.  This  yard  is 
 your  typical,  I  would  say,  suburban 
 sized  yard.  So,  this  is  a  fairly  small 
 front  yard.  This  wall  that  we're  working 
 with,  you  can  see  all  of  the  weight  is 
 to  my  left  side  over  here  of  the  house. 
 And  then  this  area  of  the  front  of  the 
 house  is  quite  small.  So,  we  don't  want 
 to  take  and  overcrowd  the  space  with  a 
 bunch  of  height  and  a  bunch  of  lushness 
 and  a  bunch  of  tropical  material.  We 
 really  want  to  be  careful  of  what  you're 
 going  to  use  there.  that  it's  going to 
 look  good  now  and  it's  going  to  look 
 good  years  from  now  because  we  didn't 
 use  material  that  is  just  going  to,  you 
 know,  just  not  fit  the  space  long  term. 
 And  that's  what  lowmaintenance  means. 
 Why  lowmaintenance,  you  might  ask?  It's 
 different  for  every  single  person.  As  a 
 landscape  designer,  I  get  to  meet  with 
 so  many  different  people.  Some  people 
 are  just  not  weekend  warriors.  They 
 don't  want  to  be out  in  the  garden.  They 
 don't  want  to  be  trimming  shape  and 
 cleaning,  you  know,  putting  on  their 
 gardening  gloves  every  time  they  turn 
 around.  So,  obviously,  low  maintenance 
 gardening  is  for  you.  And  then  for  my 
 customers,  Mike  and  Mary  here,  they 
 travel  throughout  parts  of  the  year.  So, 
 they  want  to  be  able  to  be  in  tune  with 
 their  garden.  You  know,  have  somebody 
 come  and  maintain  it  over  the  time  that 
 they're  gone  and  then  do  some  light  work 
 when  they're  here.  So,  it's  important 
 just  to  kind  of  know  what  you're  up  for 
 in  the  garden.  So,  not  only  do  you  want 
 it  to  fit  your  space,  but  you  also  want 
 it  to  fit  your  lifestyle.  Is  this  you? 
 Then  go  this  route.  Those  of  you  guys 
 who  need  more  than  DIY  action,  you  just 
 need  it  to  be  done,  finished,  beautiful, 
 and  polished  for  you.  Give  us  a  shout. 
 We  are  a  landscape  design  and 
 installation  company.  So,  from  concept 
 of  creating  the  design  to  the  final 
 touches  of  the  mulch,  the  finished 
 product.  So,  if  that's  what  you're 
 looking  for,  please  contact  us.  I'll  put 
 all  of  our  contact  information  down  in 
 the  show  notes  down  below.  For  now, 
 let's  jump  into  some  of  the  key  things 
 in  this  garden  that  really  kind  of  help 
 bring  in  that  lowmaintenance  but 
 colorful,  tropical  fun  to  a  front  yard 
 space.  All right,  you  guys.  So,  just 
 like  I  normally  do,  I  like  to  start  from 
 the  back  and  work  my  way  forward.  So, 
 the  corner  pieces,  the  things  that  I 
 chose  to  really  kind  of  add  some  impact, 
 we  only  had  the  room  in  this  garden  to 
 add  one  big  tree.  We  had  plans  in  the 
 original  plan  to  add  two  trees  in  this 
 front  yard  space,  but  easements  and 
 whatnot  with  the  HOA,  it  didn't  work 
 out.  So,  we  only  had  room  for  one.  So, 
 if  you  got  to  do  one,  why  not  do  a  big 
 mama  jama  double  like  this  guy?  So,  this 
 is  a  double  foxtail  palm  that  anchors 
 this  corner  of  the  house.  You'll  notice 
 that  I  like  to  push  my  trees  out  as  far 
 to  the  edge  of  the  property  line  as  I 
 can  without  getting  into  property 
 easements,  of  course.  So,  this  guy  is 
 over  to  the  side.  I  didn't  want  him  in 
 front  of  the  window.  I  kind  of  wanted 
 him  kind  of  more  in  where  this  blank 
 wall  is  and  pushed  him  out  to  the 
 corner.  That  does  a  great  job  of  framing 
 the  front  entrance  of  the  house.  In  a 
 moment,  you'll  see  on  the  opposite  side 
 how  we  have  a  big  giant  fat  fox  tail  on 
 that  side  to  kind  of  give  us  that  same 
 framework  that  we  have  working  on  either 
 side  of  this  big  driveway  that  we've 
 got.  So,  if  you  got  to  do  one  tree,  do  a 
 double  or  a  triple.  That'll  give  you 
 some  substance,  some  impact,  and  really 
 kind  of,  you  know,  nail  that  in.  That's 
 an  anchor  tree.  You  guys  are  probably 
 wondering  why  I  use  foxtails  so  often. 
 It's  because  I  like  self-cleaning  trees. 
 I  like  trees  that  you  don't  have  to  kind 
 of  go  in  there  and  trim  or  pay  somebody 
 a  couple  times  a  year  to  go  in  there  and 
 really  give  it  a  good  haircut.  So,  if 
 it's  at  all  possible  and  you're  looking 
 for  a  lowmaintenance  tree,  a 
 self-shedding  or  self-cleaning  tree  is 
 an  ideal  tree  to  work  with.  And  I  just 
 kind  of  like  how  cool  and  slick  this 
 trunk  line  is.  It  just  really  kind  of 
 gives  me  that  clean  feel  that  I  wanted 
 in  this  front  garden.  This  foxtail  palm 
 is  8  nt  off  of  the  house  here  and  it's 
 pushed  kind  of  out  this  way.  So,  it's 
 really  kind  of  doing  a  good  job  of 
 really  giving  us  an  entranceway  feel. 
 It's  kind  of  just  across  from  the 
 entrance  way  of  the  walkway.  So,  I 
 really  like  the  location  that  it's 
 sitting.  I  think  it's  doing  a  nice  job 
 of  becoming  an  anchor  in  this  space.  And 
 because  I  don't  want  it  to  get  lost.  I 
 don't  want  this  to  be  all  trunk  when 
 it's  27  30  foot  tall.  I  want  it  to  be 
 have  some  kind  of  backing  to  it.  So,  you 
 guys  know  I  love  to  put  pygmy  palms  as  a 
 backdrop.  It's  kind  of  a  fluffy  kind  of 
 soft  backing.  And  you  only  trim  this  guy 
 one  to  two  times  a  year.  It  really 
 depends  on  your  level  of  how  upright  you 
 want  to  keep  these  fronds.  If  you  like 
 this  bushy  kind  of  thick  feel,  you  might 
 only  trim  this  once  a  year.  It  does  have 
 thorns,  so  that  can  make  it  a  little  bit 
 angry  if  you,  you  know,  when  you're 
 trimming.  So,  wear  your  gardening  gloves 
 and  your  long  snippers  and  snip  it  as 
 close  to  the  trunk  line  as  possible.  But 
 again,  at  a  once  a  year  trim  offers  such 
 a  big  impact  in  a  garden  for  such  little 
 care  in  the  garden.  So  definitely  worth 
 a  tree  to  incorporate  as  your  either 
 centerpieces  or  corner  pieces  or 
 backdrops  to  big  trees  to  give  it  depth, 
 to  give  it  that  tearing  effect.  So  now 
 we're  going to  move  over  to  the  next 
 tree  in  this  grouping  here.  This  is  a 
 European  fan  palm.  This  is  such  a  little 
 beauty,  you  guys.  I  know  some  people 
 love  them,  some  people  hate  them.  I 
 don't  understand  it  because  when  I'm 
 thinking  about  low  maintenance,  I  am 
 thinking  about  trimming.  I'm  thinking 
 about  care.  I'm  thinking  about  overall 
 pest  issues  and  things  like  that.  This 
 guy  gives  you  no  problem.  Stays  put. 
 Grows  5  to  6  in  a  year.  That's  how  slow 
 this  tree  grows.  Has  a  beautiful  rounded 
 kind  of  feel.  Now,  when  picking  a 
 European  fan  palm,  you  can  find  them 
 very  small.  If  they  have  this  nice 
 rounded  feel  where  they  kind  of  have 
 trunks  everywhere,  that's  the  tree  that 
 you're  going  to  want  to  find.  whether 
 it's  a  small  little  guy  or  a  big  tree 
 because  they're  so  easy  to  care  for  in 
 nurseries.  A  lot  of  times  they  get 
 forgotten  about  which  means  that  you  get 
 a  tree  that  is  not  super  healthy  or  does 
 not  full  or  doesn't  have  everything  that 
 you  want  it  to  have.  And  for  a  tree  to 
 have  such  a  big  presence  in  a  garden,  it 
 has  to  be  a  real  attractive  European  fan 
 palm.  You  can  see  how  big  this  window  is 
 and  how  little  a  space  we  have  on  either 
 side  of  the  window.  So,  I  didn't  want 
 anything,  you  know,  just  clogging  up 
 this  wall,  making  this  wall  even  more 
 and  more  narrow.  So,  I  wanted  to  open 
 it,  broaden  it  up.  So,  in  order  to  do 
 that,  you  want  a  focal  point  here,  and 
 then  if  at  all  possible,  grow  into  the 
 next  two  focal  points  that  jet  out  on 
 either  side  of  it.  So,  it's  like  a  kind 
 of  like  an  offset  triangle  here.  This  is 
 our  centerpiece.  Now,  we're  coming  out 
 to  our  next  centerpieces,  which  are  the 
 false  agave.  This  guy  right  here  on  this 
 corner  really  gives  you  a  cool  fun  pop 
 of  like  a  statuesque  type  of  look.  And 
 then  right  at  the  entrance  way  does  the 
 same  thing.  And  then  we  sandwiched  the 
 European  fan  palm  right  in  the  middle. 
 So  just  to  reiterate  and  when  you're 
 picking  out  your  plants  and  your  trees, 
 your  tall  stuff,  the  things  that  are 
 hard  to  get  to,  if  you  can  make  them 
 self-shedding,  self-cleaning,  that's 
 you're  not  up  in  a  ladder  having  to  do 
 all  that  work.  When  it  comes  to  your 
 small  stuff,  it's  okay  to  do  the 
 trimming  as  long  as  it  doesn't  grow 
 super  fast.  If  you're  doing  trimming  on 
 this  tree,  maybe  once  a  year,  and  I  mean 
 maybe  once  a  year,  and  it  might  be  just 
 a  limb  or  two  that  maybe  turn  brown  from 
 a  storm  or  whatnot,  you  would  trim  that 
 once  a  year  in  here.  These  two  guys,  now 
 they're  lowmaintenance.  They  do  grow 
 about  a  foot  a  year.  So,  you'll  get  some 
 size,  some  more  size  out  of  this  all  the 
 way  to  here.  But,  it  is  super  easy  to 
 trim.  I  know  it  seems  intimidating. 
 Please  do  not  be  intimidated  by  these 
 guys.  I  don't  have  any  low  ones  that  I 
 can  demonstrate  for  you,  but  what 
 happens  is  the  growth  comes  from  the 
 middle  and  pushes  the  other  leaves  out. 
 So,  it'll  cause  this  leaf  in  the  future 
 to  kind  of  come  down  a  little  bit  more 
 than  you  may  want.  So,  all  you  do  is  you 
 take  and  you  put  your  foot  down  on  that 
 leaf,  take  a  bread  knife,  a  serrated 
 knife,  a  steak  knife,  or  a  garden  knife. 
 I  have  my  Horhi  garden  knife  that  I 
 love.  It's  super  sharp,  has  those 
 serrated  edges,  and  all  I  do  is  slice  it 
 as  close  to  the  trunk.  I'm  going  to  just 
 bend  down  here  and  that's  it.  It's  just 
 as  easy  as  that.  And  I  might  do  that 
 twice  a  year.  The  next  thing  you're 
 going to  do  are  the  fillers.  So,  you've 
 got  the  thrillers,  you've  got  the  tall 
 accents,  you  got  the  anchors,  but  you 
 don't  want  big  bushy  sanchchesia  or 
 copper  leaves  or  anything  that's  going 
 to  really  outgrow  that  space.  Unless 
 you're  a  weekend  warrior.  You  guys  are 
 out  there  and  you're  doing  it.  But  those 
 of  you  guys  who  don't  want  that  kind  of 
 work,  then  pick  mixes  of  ground  cover 
 and  low  shrub  material.  compact  shrub 
 material  along  this  back  wall.  We  get 
 great  sun  in  this  front  yard.  That  is 
 one  of the  things  that  we  do  have.  So, 
 we  could  bring  in  some  blooming  power. 
 So,  we've  got  a  clustering  of  Helen 
 Johnson  dwarf  buganilia.  Now,  those  of 
 you  guys  who  are  like,  "What?  Buggania? 
 They're  high  maintenance."  I  know.  I 
 feel  you.  They  are  high  maintenance.  But 
 dwarf  buganilia  can  be  and  love  to  be 
 kept  compact  and  small.  So,  every  couple 
 months  you  come  in  and  you  just  nip 
 these  together.  You  want  to  let  them 
 control  and  be  one  solid  grouping.  They 
 bloom  so  so  nicely  and  they  can  handle 
 that  direct  sun.  So  they  can  handle  any 
 kind  of  heat  off  the  pavers.  They  can 
 handle  tough  tough  places  and  we  kind  of 
 wanted  a  little  bit  of  pop  of  color  in 
 this  back  side.  So  that's  kind  of  where 
 we  started  with  the  Helen  Johnson 
 boogan.  They'll  get  3x3  so  they'll  be  a 
 nice  kind  of  backdrop  without  getting 
 too  tall  in  front  of  this  window.  It's 
 going  to  be  an  ideal  backdrop  for  my 
 client.  She  was  a  big  fan  of  that 
 coloration.  So  that's  the  direction  we 
 chose  to  go.  Now  we  get  to  this  plant 
 here,  this  tree  here.  Now  this  tree  of 
 course,  as  I  mentioned  earlier,  only 
 gets  five  to  six  inches  a  year.  So  what 
 I  couldn't  put  the  Helen  Johnson's  all 
 the  way  up  to  it  because  I  didn't  want 
 them  to  encroach  in  this  tree.  Now 
 you're  trying  to  keep  the  Helen 
 Johnson's  and  these  separated  to  be 
 happy  neighbors.  So  I  found  a  defining 
 line.  So  these  Indian  hawthorns  right 
 here,  they  curve  like  this,  kind  of  like 
 a  frame  around  the  European  fan  palm.  So 
 they  start  here,  curve  back,  and  then 
 kind  of  curve  forward.  These  guys  are 
 going  to  be  almost  like  a  border.  Like, 
 do  not  touch,  please.  They're  very 
 controlled,  very  confined.  Get  two  foot 
 tall.  Really  stay  nice  and  controlled. 
 You  can  let  them  get  three  if  you  like. 
 They're  very,  very  easy  to  work  with. 
 They  don't  grow  unless  you  say,  "Would 
 you  grow,  please?"  I  mean,  that's  really 
 how  they  work.  They're  such  a  slow 
 growing.  They  do  bloom  a  white  flower, 
 but  it's  really  the  texture  and  the  look 
 of  the  leaf  and  the  compactness  of  it 
 that  is  its  real  beauty.  So,  that's 
 where  this  defining  line  is  to  keep 
 everything  off  of  the  European  fan  palm. 
 This  is  where  it  gets  tricky.  So,  I  need 
 a  little  bit  of  height  on  the  corner  of 
 the  European  fan  palm  because  I  don't 
 want  this  all  to  be  one  level.  We've  got 
 the  three  foot  of  the  uh  buganilia  in 
 the  back  drops  down  to  the  twoft  around 
 guarding  the  European  fan  palm.  But 
 right  here,  I  didn't  want  a  whole  row  of 
 something  4  foot  or  anything  too  big. 
 So,  what  I  chose  is  a  dwarf  alamanda  and 
 only  three  of  them.  These  three  plants 
 right  here  will  become  one  bush.  That's 
 their  goal.  They're  going  to  meld 
 together  and  become  a  bouquet  of  just 
 dwarf  alamanda  right  here.  And  they're 
 going to  be  a  perfect  little  spot  of  2 
 and  1/2  three  foot  tall  right  here  in 
 this  little  mounding.  Then  it  drops  down 
 over  by  the  walkway  with  blue  my  minds 
 wrapping  the  opposite  direction.  Then  we 
 start  with  the  next  tier  which  is  a 
 backdrop  of  foxtail  ferns  as  you're 
 grouping.  Now  this  gives  a  different 
 kind  of  contrast.  We  go  from  leaf  color 
 to  very  vertical  kind  of  soft  flowy,  you 
 know,  look  of  the  foxtail  ferns,  which 
 you  guys  know  I  love.  Then  we  draw  back 
 in  with  a  sea  little  red  rubies.  This 
 time  of  the  year,  they're  more  purple. 
 During  the  summer  months,  they'll  have 
 more  of  a  a  burgundy  reddish  tone.  So, 
 both  colors  are  going  to  be  gorgeous  in 
 this  particular  sea  of  color  cuz  we've 
 got  the  yellow  and  the  chartreuse 
 coloring  of  this  leaf  foxtail  fern 
 completely  contrasting  texture.  And  then 
 we've  got  the  shiny  little  leaves  of  the 
 little  rubies.  And  then  to  kind  of  like 
 completely  go  crazy  and  contrast  a  whole 
 another  look,  we  have  a  similar  leaf 
 structure  as  the  little  rubies,  but  a 
 bright  tone  coloring  of  the  golden  dues 
 or  gold  mounds  right  here.  And  of 
 course,  they  just  do  enough,  a  little 
 swath  just  to  break  up  the  color.  And 
 then  finished  it  off  with  flora  boxwood 
 right  at  the  bottom.  These  are  just 
 almost  like  a  very  low  controlled  foot, 
 foot  foot  and  a  half  ground  cover  that 
 is  really  going  to  kind  of  keep  us 
 almost  like  a  a  defined  edge  border. 
 These  get  a  little  bit  taller.  These  get 
 a  little  bit  taller.  These  get  a  little 
 bit  taller.  And  then  it  drops  back  down. 
 So  you  can  really  see  it  from  both 
 sides,  from  the  road  and  from  people 
 coming  up  the  walkway.  You  kind  of  see 
 how  easy  that  is.  The  borders  are  going 
 to  be  very  easy  to  keep  clean.  You  can 
 see  I've  planted  things  in  groups  of 
 each  other.  Hot  pink  pentas.  Right  now 
 we've  got  five  here,  but  they're  going 
 to  be  one.  I  just  want  this  to  be  a 
 clustering  of  these.  No  space  in 
 between.  They're  going  to  connect  to 
 each  other,  become  one  solid  group  of  a 
 little  bit  of  height.  Then  it's  going  to 
 drop  over  here  to  the  golden  deuce  and 
 be  one  height  along  through  here.  This 
 is  formal.  This  is  soft.  This  is  soft  to 
 the  back.  This  is  formal.  You  kind  of 
 see  the  contrast.  If  you  can't  do  that 
 with  multi  level  of  heights,  you  can 
 definitely  do  it  with  textures  of  leaf 
 and  color  changes.  And  that's  kind  of 
 what  I  mean  about  a  lowmaintenance 
 garden.  It  doesn't  have  to  all  be  one 
 green  hedge,  one  green  hedge,  one  green 
 hedge,  or  just  a  row  of  croins  to  give 
 you  color.  It  can  be  this  variation 
 because  these  are  all  smaller,  compact 
 ground  covers  that  love  the  same 
 situation.  They're  more  in  the  drought 
 tolerant  family.  They're  tough.  They're 
 just  something  that  you  can  really  work 
 with  all  year  long  and  not  have  to  worry 
 or  fuss  too  much  with  them.  Everything 
 kind  of  has  its  own  place.  It  has  its 
 own  job  in  the  garden.  And  this  is  not 
 much  room.  This  is  a  small  pocket  of  a 
 front  yard.  And  I  feel  like  we  got  as 
 much  impact  as  we  possibly  could.  The 
 only  thing  that  if  you're  able  to  do  or 
 you  have  a  little  bit  more  room,  having 
 a  single  foxtail  in  this  particular  spot 
 right  here  would  have  been  a  beautiful 
 feature  to  incorporate  right  here 
 because  we  have  one  on  that  side  of  the 
 driveway  there.  It  would  have  been 
 lovely  to  have  one  on  each  side  of  the 
 driveway.  You  guys  know  how  I  love 
 framing  any  kind  of  project.  There's 
 always  going  to  be  some  makeshift. 
 There's  always  going  to  be  some  things 
 that  I'd  love  to  do  this,  but  it's  not 
 possible.  whether  it's  budget  or  it's 
 HOA  requirements  or  it's  county  easement 
 lines,  whatever  it  is,  you're  going  to 
 just  have  to  work  with  it  and  make  the 
 best  of  the  situation.  So,  that's  why 
 it's  really  good  to  have  a  good  plan  in 
 place  before  you  get  started.  I  hope 
 this  video  helps.  I'm  sorry  it's  such  a 
 short  video  today,  but  I  definitely 
 wanted  to  just  showcase  this  front  yard 
 garden  because  I  think  that  a  lot  of  us 
 are  struggling  with  some  of  the  same 
 problems.  Those  of  you  guys  know  that  we 
 have  a  book  out  we  are  very,  very 
 excited  about.  Please  check  it  out.  It 
 is  going  to  be  the  first  link  in  the 
 description  down  below.  It  is  on  Amazon. 
 It  is  a  book  that  Bryce  and  I  created 
 together.  Took  us  over  a  year  to  create. 
 So,  we  are  very  pleased  with  it.  Talks 
 about  the  toughest  of  toughest  tropical 
 plants  of  Florida  that  I  work  with  every 
 single  day  as  a  landscape  designer.  Some 
 of  the  plants  that  are  just  golden 
 plants.  There  are  the  plants  that  I  use 
 to  pull  all  of  these  designs  that  you 
 guys  see  so  much  on  YouTube  together. 
 And  they're  companion  plants  that  grow 
 super  super  well  with  them.  So,  it  kind 
 of  gives  a  lot  of  information  about  them 
 and  some  beautiful  gardens  that  we 
 created  all  along  this  treasure  and 
 space  coast.  So,  thank  you  guys  so  much 
 for  joining  me  today.  If  you  enjoyed 
 today's  video,  check  out  last  week's 
 video.  I  hope  you  enjoy  all  of  the 
 garden  tours.  Please  list  any  comments 
 or  questions  down  below.  I'd  love  to 
 hear  from  you  guys.  Thank  you  so  much. 
 to  take  care  of  true  gardeners.

---

 [music] 
 So,  you've  got  no  [music]  space  and  you 
 want  a  tropical  landscape.  No  problem. 
 Today's  video  is  totally  [music]  going 
 to  be  all  about  how  to  create  that.  It's 
 such  a  misconception  that  a  lot  of 
 people  think  it's  a  lot  of  my  clients 
 that  I  meet  with  every  single  day  want 
 that  tropical  privacy  [music] 
 buffer,  but  they're  like,  "Okay,  but  I'm 
 on  like  this  much  land."  In  this 
 particular  property  that  we're  at  here 
 in  Steuart,  Florida,  [music]  there  is 
 approximately  8t  of  space  along  this 
 side.  And  I  cannot  wait  to  show  you  guys 
 [music]  how  we  layered  this  in,  how  we 
 place  these  plants  and  trees  to  just 
 kind  of  give  them  that  perfect  [music] 
 amount  of  space.  In  today's  video,  we're 
 not  only  going  to  just  talk  about  how  we 
 styled  it,  how  we  set  it  up,  how  we 
 created  as  much  maximum  amount  of 
 tropical  vibes  in  this  whole  backyard 
 space  as  we  could  possibly  fit  in  it, 
 but  we're  also  going  to  get  into, 
 [music]  you  know,  the  key  areas  to  kind 
 of  look  for  the  the  little  sections  in 
 the  garden  to  highlight  where  and  what 
 and  how  to  recognize  that  because  I 
 think  that  is  so  important  in  a  cool 
 garden.  We'll  get  to  that  later  in  the 
 video.  Today  we  are  visiting  a  [music] 
 project  we  just  finished  literally 
 yesterday  in  a  monsoon.  Absolutely 
 turned  out  beautiful  that  I  asked  Bryce 
 along  to  please  kind  of  share  it  with 
 this  community  because  I  think  that  a 
 lot  of  us  are  struggling  with  the  same 
 type  of  situations  that  my  customers 
 Mary  and  Mike  were  struggling  with.  They 
 wanted  a  garden.  They  wanted  it  to  be 
 tropical.  They  wanted  coverage.  They 
 wanted  privacy.  And  they  had  this  much 
 room  to  put  it  all  in.  But  I  will  talk 
 about  the  plants  and  the  trees  and  what 
 they're  going  to  do  over  time  like  I 
 always  do.  So  that  way  if  you  guys  want 
 to  recreate  this  kind  of  look  in  your 
 small  space,  take  this  as  a  template  and 
 say,  "Okay,  this  is  kind  of  the 
 direction  I  want  to  go  in  with  my 
 particular  area  because  I  know  this 
 plant  combination,  these  groupings  are 
 totally  going  to  work  for  my  garden 
 because  they're  working  [music]  in  this 
 garden  from  a  professional  landscape 
 designer."  Speaking  of  combination 
 plantings  [music]  though,  our  book  is 
 almost  ready.  It  will  be  the  first  link 
 down  in  the  description.  We  are  super 
 [music]  super  excited.  This  has  been  a 
 work  in  progress.  It  has  been  in  the 
 works  for  over  a  year  and  we  have  just 
 tweaked  and  adjusted  [music]  and  tweaked 
 and  adjusted  just  to  make  it  perfect,  to 
 make  it  something  that  you  could  pick  up 
 and  enjoy  reading  with  a  cup  of  coffee 
 or  a  glass  of  wine.  Or  it  could  be 
 something  that  you  take  right  to  the 
 garden  center  with  you  because  it's  got 
 a  list  of  plant  groupings  that  do  super 
 [music]  well.  Tough,  hearty  plants  of 
 Florida  that  I  use  every  single  day  in 
 my  designs.  Then  I  also  take  it  one  step 
 further  by  putting  combination  plant 
 groupings,  things  that  are  going  to  play 
 well  together.  So  that  way  you  guys  can 
 say,  "Okay,  I  like  this  plant.  I  like 
 the  way  it  looks.  It's  going  to  work  now 
 with  this  combination  of  five  or  six 
 plant  groupings  together."  So  you  kind 
 of  have  like  a  home  run  of  what  plants 
 are  going  to  really  do  well  together 
 over  a  period  of  time  and  grow 
 seamlessly  in  your  garden  with  as  little 
 care  as  possible  that  can  handle  our 
 tough  Florida  environment.  More  on  that 
 later.  I  will  put  it  in  the  description 
 down  below.  and  let's  [music]  get  this 
 party  started  and  uh  show  you  guys 
 around.  So,  starting  this  section  off, 
 the  biggest  issue  [music]  with  most 
 Florida  homes,  especially  ones  that  have 
 these  fantastic  pool  areas,  is  it  leaves 
 little  sideyard  slips  [music]  that  you 
 don't  really  know  what  to  do  with? 
 Should  you  just  put  a  row  of  palm  trees 
 in?  Should  you  just  put  some  ora  palms 
 in?  [music]  I  mean,  there's  just  so  many 
 different  options  that  you  can  do  and 
 you  kind  of  don't  maybe  want  to  be  fully 
 enclosed.  You  want  some  interest.  You 
 want  some  color.  You  want  some 
 character.  You  want  some  levels  and 
 layers.  That's  [music]  exactly  what  I 
 feel  we  accomplished  in  this  space.  So, 
 just  to  give  you  guys  kind  of  a  point  of 
 reference  on  [music]  the  size  that  we're 
 looking  at,  from  the  first  section  of 
 the  bed,  from  the  corner  of  the  house 
 here  to  the  end  of  the  bed  there  is  37 
 [music]  ft  long.  Normally  in  a  normal 
 backyard,  what  you'd  be  seeing  is  the 
 neighbor's  backyard  pool  area,  the 
 neighbor's  backyard  space,  where  they 
 entertain  and  where  you  entertain.  So, 
 of  course,  privacy  is  key  if  you  can 
 create  something  that  divides  those  two 
 areas  from  the  foundation  of  the  screen 
 area  here  out  to  the  property  line  is 
 exactly  10t.  Now,  although  we  had  10t  of 
 space  to  work  with,  if  you  guys  want  to 
 keep  your  neighbors  happy  and  you  don't 
 want  to  be  in  that  low  spot  of  your 
 yard,  you  kind  of  still  want  to  be  on 
 the  high  spot  for  your  rear  tier.  And 
 that's  exactly  what  happened.  The 
 further  back  we  got,  the  further  the 
 slant  started  to  get.  So,  we  chose  to 
 bring  it  up  2  foot  in.  So  this  whole  bed 
 space  from  here  to  the  end  of  the 
 [music]  bed  is  8t  deep,  which  is  a  good 
 amount  of  space  to  kind  of  maintain  to 
 the  backside.  This  way  you  can  maintain 
 from  the  rear  side  of  the  planting  bed 
 and  not  be  on  your  neighbor's  property. 
 And  that's  incredibly  helpful  to  keep 
 happy  neighbors.  We  chose  [music]  to 
 stay  within  that  8ft  guideline,  which 
 really  did  squish  things  up.  So  when 
 you're  breaking  down  how  many  layers  you 
 can  get  into  an  8-ft  [music]  space,  you 
 really  have  to  start  looking  at  your 
 ground  covers,  your  accents,  your  trees, 
 and  then  your  privacy  hedge.  So  you  have 
 to  make  sure  that  there's  going to  be 
 enough  room  to  do  that  so  you  can 
 allocate  [music]  enough  room  for  things 
 to  grow  in,  to  fill  out,  to  lush  out.  So 
 that's  exactly  what  we  did  here.  So,  as 
 you're  looking  at  your  space,  just  kind 
 of  imagine  with  me  if  you  have  a  very 
 similar  layout  as  this  and  it's  8  foot 
 long,  you're  going  to  want  to  make  sure 
 that  you're  leaving  enough  room  for  each 
 layer  to  really  fully  grow  in.  But  just 
 to  give  you  guys  an  example,  I  am  going 
 to  get  Bryce  in  front  of  this  camera. 
 I'm  going  to  walk  this  off  so  that  way 
 you  guys  get  it  really  sets  in  just  kind 
 of  exactly  how  these  layers  are  set  up 
 so  you  really  feel  comfortable  with  kind 
 of  doing  this  on  your  own.  So,  I'm  going 
 to  get  Bryce  right  out  of  his  comfort 
 zone,  away  from  the  rear  side  of  the 
 camera  to  in  front  of  the  camera. 
 >> Hey  guys,  don't  you  love  it  when  your 
 mom  ropes  you  into  things?  I'm  not  used 
 to  being  on  camera,  so  I'm  just  going  to 
 give  you  my  best  shot  with  this.  Let  me 
 try  to  explain  this  the  best  way  I  can. 
 One  thing  that's  really  important  is  to 
 make  sure  that  you're  on  center  of  all 
 [music]  of  these  plants.  So,  going  off 
 the  screen  room,  you're  going  to  go  1T 
 [music]  to  the  middle  of  the  plant. 
 That's  your  ground  cover.  That's  one 
 layer  right  there.  That's  your  first 
 [music]  one.  Going  to  the  next  layer, 
 you're  going  one  foot,  two  feet  right 
 here.  That's  your  next  layer  of  the 
 croins  and  the  alamanda  right  here.  Next 
 layer  is  [music]  going  to  be  this  big 
 foxtail.  Going  to  one,  two  feet  right 
 there.  That's  your  third  layer.  So  you 
 can  see  [music]  2  4  6  you're  at  three 
 layers.  The  final  layer  is  going  to  be 
 this  Kucia  hedge  right  here.  That's 
 going  to  be  one  2  feet.  So  now  you're  at 
 8  ft  of  space  and  then  you  have  another 
 2T  for  your  maintenance  path  back  here. 
 So,  we  like  to  say  that  they  can  range 
 from  two  to  three  feet  depending  on  the 
 layer,  especially  when  you're  in  a 
 condensed  space  right  here.  You're  going 
 to  have  to  condense  the  plants  in  a 
 little  bit  more  than  you  normally  would. 
 Kusia  would  normally  want  around  3  ft  of 
 space,  but  when  you're  trying  to  fill  it 
 in,  you're  going  to  try  to  keep  it 
 trimmed  up  to  about  2  ft  [music]  of 
 space  so  you  can  fit  your  bigger 
 material  like  your  foxtails.  And  then 
 your  gold  mound,  your  blue  my  mind 
 mines,  they  can  vary  from  that  1  to  2  ft 
 of  space  rather  than  that  big  three  it 
 normally  would  take  to  fill  that  space. 
 Hope  that  explains  it  pretty  well  for 
 you  guys.  And  let's  get  back  into  it. 
 >> So  in  this  particular  [music]  case, 
 because  of  what  we  had  to  work  with,  I 
 knew  that  we  could  do  four  layers  into 
 [music]  this  particular  spot.  And  then 
 now  it's  time  to  decide  what  layers  and 
 why.  So  we're  going  to  get  into  that 
 now.  Obviously,  we  have  [music]  the 
 Kucia.  That's  our  backdrop,  our  wall.  If 
 you're  not  a  Kucia  fan  and  maybe  your 
 space  is  even  tighter  than  this  and  you 
 need  to  keep  this  that  rear  wall  a  foot 
 wide,  you  might  be  better  off  going  with 
 something  like  podocarvis  [music] 
 that'll  kind  of  give  you  a  long  linear 
 type  of  look.  It  will  take  longer  to 
 grow  in  these  kucia  within  6  months  will 
 [music]  be  a  nice  solid  wall.  So  that's 
 so  great.  You'll  be  a  good  year  to  year 
 and  a  half  before  it  really  [music] 
 connects.  So  that's  kind  of  the  reason 
 why  I  lean  more  towards  the  the  Kucia. 
 is  also  going  to  not  only  give  you 
 privacy,  but  it's  going  to  let  what  we 
 chose  to  the  front  of  it  really  pop  with 
 color  because  anytime  you  put  a  green 
 screen  next  to  anything,  well,  you  guys 
 know  it  by  now  if  you  watch  this 
 channel,  it  brings  out  the  color  of 
 everything  else.  It  takes  it  and  really 
 just  kind  of  controls  your  environment, 
 creates  more  of  a  garden  setting,  more 
 of  a  courtyard  kind  of  feel.  And  that's 
 what  I  love  about  these  kind  of  walls  in 
 a  landscape.  So,  that's  why  it  was  one 
 of  the  most  important  things  to  get  in 
 at  a  good  size.  These  are  10gallon 
 Kucia.  They  came  in  about  4t  tall,  so 
 they're  really  starting  off  to  a  great 
 start.  Going  to  create  a  perfect  6-ft 
 wall  along  this  area.  And  then  the  next 
 thing  to  do  is  [music]  decide  on  your 
 trees.  What  trees  are  you  going  to  work 
 with?  Do  you  want  layers  of  big  and 
 [music]  tall  and  short  and  cool  trees? 
 Yes.  However,  when  you're  working  with  a 
 narrow  [music]  space,  you  have  to  make 
 sure  that  your  trees  not  only  vary  in 
 size,  but  won't  compete  with  each  other. 
 Because  I  can't  take  these  trees  like  I 
 did  in  my  very  own  house  where  my  buffer 
 was  [music]  16  to  18t  deep.  I  can't  take 
 them  and  put  my  taller  trees  back  here, 
 my  shorter  trees  here,  and  so  on  and 
 layer  like  this.  This  is  a  row.  All  of 
 these  [music]  trees  are  6t  off  of  the 
 screen  room  just  to  kind  of  keep  them 
 off  of  the  screen  room  to  keep  these 
 fronds  away.  So,  I  had  to  strategically 
 plan  on  what  trees  I  can  use,  where,  and 
 how.  King  Alexander  are  some  of  my 
 favorite  trees  to  work  with.  I  think 
 they're  an  ideal  beautiful  centerpiece. 
 Big  crown.  Nice  cool  sturdy  trunk.  Love 
 this  ringed  kind  of  cane  look  to  it. 
 Just  so  cool  and  green  and  a  very 
 substantial  tree  for  an  area.  I  think 
 it's  a  nice  dynamic  look.  And  so  I 
 started  it  with  the  King  Alexander.  Now 
 the  King  Alexander  growth  rate  grows 
 slower  than  the  tree  right  next  to 
 [music]  it.  However,  I  did  not  want  to 
 rely  solely  on  the  growth  rates  on 
 things.  So,  [music]  I  was  able  to  bring 
 this  tree  in  at  a  15t  size  where  the 
 King  Alexander  is  at  an  11  ft  size. 
 [music] 
 So,  if  that  is  you  guys,  no  matter  what 
 size  you're  working  with,  make  sure  that 
 whatever  tree  you're  starting  with  is 
 either  taller  or  shorter.  It  doesn't 
 matter.  Whatever  your  viewpoint  is, 
 [music]  make  sure  it  starts  out  at  a 
 different  height  as  the  neighboring 
 tree.  That  way  you  can  layer  [music] 
 this  way  up  and  down,  up  and  down 
 instead  of  having  to  layer  staggered 
 forward  because  you  just  don't  have  that 
 kind  of  room.  Right.  These  two  trees 
 right  here  are  about  9  ft  apart.  So 
 they're  about  9  ft  on  center  here  to 
 [music]  give  us  plenty  of  room.  So  that 
 way  they  cascade  but  they  don't 
 interfere  with  each  other.  And  because 
 the  levels  are  different,  they're  not 
 going  to  combine  like  this  or  clash. 
 They're  going  to  give  you  that  different 
 feel,  that  more  opening  kind  of  a  look 
 with  a  shorter  tree  and  a  taller  tree. 
 This  tree  will  grow  faster  than  this 
 tree.  So  that  way  there's  always  going 
 to  be  a  height  difference  no matter  how 
 many  [music]  years  down  the  road  this 
 goes.  And  that's  just  how  you  get  that 
 tropical  feel  where  you  get  that  trunk 
 on  trunk  kind  of  look  mixed  in  with  all 
 your  plant  groupings.  You  just  got  to 
 make  sure  that  you're  you're  really 
 allowing  for  proper  space  and  proper 
 height  so  things  don't  clash  so  things 
 really  kind  of  draw  you  in  like  this 
 when  you're  looking  through  the  garden. 
 And  that's  exactly  what  we  continued  on 
 right  over  here.  So  now  we  drop  down  to 
 the  pygmy  palm.  So,  I've  [music]  got  two 
 trees  on  either  side,  but  we  needed 
 still  coverage,  long-term  coverage.  So, 
 you  guys  know  how  I  feel  about  my 
 pygmies.  Beautiful  little  tree  in  the 
 beginning,  and  then  as  they  grow  into 
 their  full  maturity,  they're  the  perfect 
 [music] 
 blocking  tree  for  a  long-term  success 
 without  the  maintenance  of  having  to  do 
 a  hedge  of  any  [music]  kind.  So,  this  is 
 a  great  kind  of  little  focal  point,  and 
 it's  soft  little  frond.  We  go  up  from 
 the  15t  down  to  the  5  [music]  foot  of 
 the  piggy  palm.  This  is  a  triple  piggy 
 palm.  Right  next  to  it  is  another  King 
 Alexander  palm.  So  you  see  we  [music] 
 started  with  the  King  Alexander  double 
 foxtail  pygmy  eight  palm  back  up  [music] 
 to  the  King  Alexander  and  then  back  down 
 to  another  pygmy  eight  palm.  This  is 
 another  triple.  So  we've  dropped  it  back 
 down  again  only  to  go  back  right  back  up 
 again.  It's  like  a  roller  coaster  ride. 
 This  is  like  a  great  roller  coaster 
 ride.  I  just  love  that.  So,  [laughter] 
 we're  back  up  to  the  double  foxtail  yet 
 again.  And  then  we've  completely  brought 
 in  another  pygmy  right  anchoring  this 
 corner.  Now,  this  pygmy  when  it  matures 
 and  grows  in,  it's  going  to  completely 
 wrap  around  this  corner,  giving  them 
 that  really  soft  buffering  feel  because 
 I  didn't  want  them  to  see  the  end  of  the 
 Kucia  [music]  hedge,  the  end  of  the 
 wall.  I  wanted  to  soften  it,  to  curve 
 it,  to  kind  of  make  this  not  feel  so 
 tight  and  [music]  constricted.  So,  the 
 best  way  to  do  that  is  to  layer  your 
 plants  to  the  front  of  that  hedge.  You 
 don't  know  how  many  times  I've  [music] 
 had  clients  say,  "I  want  privacy,  but  I 
 don't  want  a  wall  or  I  don't  want  a 
 hedge."  And  I'm  like,  "Well,  [music] 
 okay.  So,  we  can  do,  you  know,  other 
 types  of  trees  for  that."  But  that 
 wasn't  the  look  either.  They  kind  of 
 wanted  the  clean  line  of  a  hedge,  but 
 not  feeling  like  it's  just  a  big  tall 
 wall.  This  is  how  you  do  that.  You  layer 
 to  the  front  of  it,  create  pockets, 
 [music]  create  grooves,  create  interest, 
 let  that  wall  do  its  job,  and  then  make 
 it  pretty.  Just  put  pretty  things  in 
 front  of  it.  So,  [laughter] 
 that's  the  that's  the  secret  to 
 landscape  [music]  designing.  Um,  so  now 
 we're  working  our  way  around  and  now 
 we've  chosen  a  different  tree  right 
 here.  This  is  a  regular  Alexander  about 
 12  and  1/2t  tall.  [music]  So,  this 
 Alexander  I  love  this  is  one  of  Bryce's 
 favorite  trees.  He  just  loves  the  canine 
 on  these  trees.  It's  almost  like  a 
 bamboo  caning.  It's  much  smaller  than 
 the  other  trees.  It  has  more  of  a  droopy 
 kind  of  soft  frond.  And  I  don't  think 
 that  it's  like  one  of  those  trees  that 
 are  such  a  stature  tree  that  you  can 
 only  have  it  amongst  nothing  else  in  the 
 garden.  But  I  do  like  the  change  up  that 
 it  offers  with  all  the  other  variety  of 
 fronds.  I'm  a  big  uh  fan  of  diversity  in 
 the  garden.  And  if  you  could  kind  of 
 create  a  different  kind  of  look  and 
 still  match  the  theme,  [music]  still 
 carry  the  theme  over,  I  think  that's 
 what  makes  a  garden  very  interesting. 
 And  so  I  love  this  double  Alexander 
 right  to  the  rear  of  the  fence  [music] 
 kind  of  ending  this  corner  of  the  bed 
 only  to  match  it  on  the  opposite  side. 
 You  want  to  find  some  key  areas  to 
 really  make  you  just  kind  of  make  a 
 statement  [music]  piece.  Make  a  make  an 
 area  for  your  eye  to  rest.  And  that  can 
 be  done  with  so  many  things.  I  did  them 
 here  with  plants.  Could  be  done  with  a 
 boulder.  It  could  be  done  [music]  with  a 
 statue.  It  could  be  done  with  a  potted 
 plant  that  you  have  something  really 
 cool  that  needs  to  be  in  a  pot  that  pops 
 out  of  it.  But  those  kind  of  things, 
 those  are  important  little  personality 
 touches,  like  that  little  key  thing  that 
 you're  like,  I  love  the  garden,  but  I 
 come  out  just  to  kind  of  check  on  this 
 little  area  in  particular.  You  kind  of 
 want  to  make  sure  the  center  of  the 
 garden  or  center  of  this  wall  buffer  has 
 something  interesting  to  look  at.  You 
 want  to  start  with  that.  So,  let's  take 
 a  peek  and  look  in  here  and  then  we'll 
 go  to  the  next  section.  And  we  are  now 
 inside  the  buffer.  Bryce  had  to  pop  in 
 on  the  other  side  of  the  screen.  I  hope 
 you  guys  can  still  see.  Okay,  the 
 centerpiece,  we  all  kind  of  know  that's 
 the  area  you  want  your  eye  to  draw  to 
 first.  Every  each  centerpiece  of  this 
 bed  has  a  silver  odora.  I  love  this 
 [music]  plant.  This  is  a  no  fuss  plant. 
 It  loves  loves  loves.  It  can  handle 
 morning  midday  sun.  Try  to  keep  it  at 
 afternoon  sun  unless  this  is  something 
 that  has  some  protection  like  a  a  palm 
 tree  over  top  of  it.  Some  palm  trees 
 kind  of  doing  this  [music]  to  give  it 
 filter  light  like  you're  seeing  it  come 
 in  now.  That's  the  perfect  environment 
 for  it.  It  is  a  burmilad  but  is  a  tough 
 one  and  it  does  not  multiply  [music]  or 
 spread  or  go  to  town.  This  is  a  solitary 
 plant,  so  it's  going  to  work  perfectly 
 in  this  area.  But  you  notice  it's 
 silver.  [music] 
 So  what  I  did  is  a  contrast  of  color.  So 
 this  could  be  anything.  Could  be  in  your 
 garden  a  falsab.  It  could  be  a  bird  of 
 paradise.  It  could  [music]  be  a  king 
 seo.  It  could  be  a  dune  palm.  Could  be 
 anything  that  draws  your  eye.  But  if  at 
 all  possible  and  you've  got  this  much 
 green,  this  much  yellow,  this  much  red, 
 why  not  do  silver?  [music] 
 Silver,  I  think,  is  a  gorgeous  touch, 
 especially  when  the  garden  is  a  little 
 shaded  because  it's  like  a  little 
 highlight,  a  little  pop  of  color,  a 
 little  pop  of  a  spotlight  in  the  garden. 
 And  that's  exactly  what  this  guy  is 
 going  to  do  is  create  that  spotlight 
 [music] 
 as  the  centerpiece.  So,  what  we  did  is 
 we  took  the  centerpiece  in  and  framed  it 
 with  the  two  pymedate  palms.  That  goes 
 for  both  sides  of  the  bed.  So,  that  way 
 we've  wrapped  it  around.  We've  got  our 
 thriller  in  the  middle,  foxtail  palm, 
 and  then  we've  got  what  they  call,  I 
 don't know  if  they  call  it  the  spillers, 
 [music] 
 where  they  kind  of  come  around  and  kind 
 of  wrap  around.  And  then  we've  got  a 
 centerpiece  area  that  really  just  kind 
 of  crowns  out  and  draws  your  eyes.  That 
 doesn't  mean  you  can't  jazz  up  other 
 sections  of  the  garden.  Right  on  each 
 corner,  there's  not  a  lot  of  room  to  do 
 much  of  anything  else,  but  I  wanted 
 [music]  something  with  some  brightness, 
 something  with  a  contrast,  color,  and 
 height  that  the  rest  of  the  bed  doesn't 
 have.  So,  I  [music]  chose  to  bring  in 
 some  antiloo.  So  we  have  a  nice 
 collection  [music]  of  antiloo's  here. 
 Now  you  can  bring  in  a  15gallon  if  you 
 like  and  just  do  one  nice  [music] 
 cluster.  I  like  to  bring  in  some  nice 
 five  gallons  and  cluster  them  together 
 into  one  hole.  Let  them  really  open  up 
 become  [music]  a  nice  spreading  plant. 
 This  will  get  8  foot  tall  right  here  and 
 really  kind  of  become  just  such  a  nice 
 almost  like  a  column  in  the  garden.  And 
 it's  so  different  than  the  rest  of  the 
 landscaping  that  it  draws  your  eye 
 because  there's  not  [music]  another 
 variety  like  this.  So,  we've  got  this 
 anchored  here  and  then  in  another  what  I 
 call  a  dead  area  of  the  garden  over 
 there  almost  at  the  end  we  have  another 
 cluster.  And  then  you  guys  will  notice 
 if  Bryce  will  pop  up  a  picture  of  the 
 opposite  side  where  right  at  the  other 
 screen  door  we  have  another  cluster.  So, 
 we  have  three  clusters  of  what  I  would 
 consider  dead  areas.  Areas  that's  kind 
 of  hard  to  do  something  really  cool.  I 
 knew  that  this  was  going  to  be  a  tight 
 spot  because  the  walkway  is  right  here. 
 I  didn't  want  to  put  another  odora, 
 silver  odor,  or  put  another  little 
 accent  or  an  agave  or  anything  here 
 because  it's  going to  be  right  in  the 
 way  of  the  walkway.  But  having  something 
 vertical  here  with  some  sanchchesia  and 
 gold  mound  around  them,  it  is  another 
 type  of  spotlight.  We  go  from  a  bright 
 spotlight  to  a  dark  contrasting  leaf 
 [music]  spotlight.  So,  these  key 
 clusters  are  really  going  to  allow  you 
 to  jazz  up  the  bed  to  kind  of  draw  your 
 eye  from  green,  green,  green  to  silver, 
 green,  green,  green  to  red  throughout 
 the  bed.  I  hope  that  comes  across.  I 
 hope  that  makes  sense.  [music]  All 
 right,  so  now  for  some  of  my  favorite 
 parts,  the  ground  covers,  the  shrub 
 material,  the  small  things  that  pull  it 
 all  together.  Now,  they  are  kind  of 
 [music]  the  unsung  heroes  of  the  garden. 
 All  of  this  other  fun  stuff  is 
 definitely  great.  Great  [music]  look, 
 great  energy,  really,  you  know,  takes 
 the  garden  to  another  level.  But  you 
 pull  it  all  together  with  the  edges, 
 with  the  borders,  with  the  small  stuff. 
 And  that's  what  we're  going  to  talk 
 about  here.  Right  behind  this  beautiful 
 cluster  of  antiloo,  I  [music]  put  in  two 
 sanchchesia.  Why  two?  Because  only  two 
 will  fit  there  and  grow  in  super  well 
 and  do  the  job  really  nicely  between 
 [music]  these  two.  This  is  going  to  be  a 
 shaded  spot  between  these  two  areas 
 because  these  fishtail  palms  will  do 
 what  fishtail  palms  do.  We  chose  two 
 fishtail  pumps  for  this  particular  space 
 just  to  [music]  kind  of  help  soften  the 
 neighbors  back  patio  space.  It  really 
 does  a  good  job  of  giving  my  [music] 
 clients  a  pretty  instantaneous  privacy 
 buffer  and  then  as  it  matures,  it's 
 going  to  even  do  the  job  and  create  a 
 gorgeous  tropical  wall  right  here.  But 
 Sanchezia  are  going  to  do  a  great  job 
 when  these  guys  get  6  to  8t  tall. 
 They're  going  to  wrap  around  the  base  of 
 those  [music]  trunks,  giving  it  kind  of 
 a  a  really  cool  variegated  leaf  kind  of 
 look.  A  little  bit  wild,  a  little  bit 
 crazy.  And  I  could  have  continued  them 
 on  to  [music]  the  front,  but  s  cheesy 
 are  one  of  those  plants  that  don't  like 
 to  be  trimmed  too  much.  If  you  trim 
 them,  they  tend  to  just  kind  of  be  a 
 little  loosey  goosey  and  kind  of  crazy. 
 So,  you  want  to  let  them  get  beefy.  You 
 want  to  let  them  spread  out.  They  like 
 room  to  grow.  So,  I  can  put  them  back 
 there  and  they'll  go  between  these  two 
 plant  groupings  and  be  lush  and 
 tropical.  Not  so  much  to  the  front. 
 [music]  To  the  front,  we  would  have  had 
 to  trim  them  so  much  that  they  were  not 
 attractive  from  the  screen  room.  So, 
 what  I  did  choose  for  that  is  something 
 that  does  not  mind  being  little.  does 
 not  mind  being  compact,  which  is  the 
 gold  mounds.  So,  these  gold  mounds  are 
 going  to  do  a  great  job  of  not  only 
 giving  us  contrasting  [music]  color  from 
 the  mulch  to  the  ground  to  the  dark 
 colors  of  the  shaded  spot.  They're  going 
 to  do  a  great  job  of  just  kind  of  being 
 a  [music]  beautiful  yellowy  chartreuse 
 kind  of  green  coloring  different  times 
 of  the  season.  And  I  just  have  a  little 
 cluster  of  them.  I  didn't  go  crazy.  I 
 just  have  a  little  bit  of  highlight  with 
 those  to  the  front.  [music]  The  next 
 plant  grouping  I  chose,  the  ground  cover 
 is  the  pentas,  the  dark  hot  pink  pentas, 
 because  if  you  got  yellow,  why  not  bring 
 in  the  pinks?  This  is  my  favorite 
 variety.  And  these  pentas  bloom  in  the 
 shade,  which  is  hard  to  [music]  find.  So 
 that's  why  I  chose  them  for  this 
 particular  spot.  I  didn't  use  something 
 that  really  is  going  to  need  a  lot  of 
 sun  to  really  do  well  and  be  beautiful. 
 I  needed  something  that  was  going  to 
 stay  around  2  and  1/2,  3t  tall.  Now 
 you'll  notice  I  had  dwarf  buganilia  in 
 the  sunny  areas  in  the  back  and  they  get 
 3x3  and  they're  perfect.  They  can  be 
 mounded  and  kept  small  for  buganilia. 
 They're  fabulous.  Put  them  in  an 
 environment  like  this.  They'll  [music] 
 be  sticky,  twiggy,  thorny  messes.  Not 
 only  do  you  not  want  to  walk  near  them 
 as  you're  in  this  garden,  but  they're 
 not  [music]  going to  be  gorgeous. 
 They're  going  to  have  very,  very  little 
 color  if  any,  and  just  be  little  green 
 splotches  in  this  area.  These  guys  are 
 going  to  offer  that  color. 
 >> [music] 
 >> So  definitely  work  with  your  space.  If 
 you've  got  full  sun  and  you've  got  this 
 type  of  space  and  you  want  to  cover  a 
 little  bit  of  the  trunks,  definitely 
 dwarf  buganilia,  Helen  Johnson's  are 
 some  of  my  favorites,  but  not  in  this 
 particular  environment.  So  really  be 
 careful  what  you  choose.  The  [music]  hot 
 pink  pentas,  these  guys  get  cut  back. 
 Usually  I  do  it  in  the  spring.  I'll  cut 
 them  really  low  down  to  the  ground  and 
 let  them  flush  out  with  all  new  growth 
 every  single  year.  Some  people  do  it 
 every  3  years,  and  if  that  works  for 
 you,  that's  perfectly  fine.  I  like  to  do 
 mine  once  a  year.  I'll  cut  it  all  the 
 way  back  down,  leave  about  this  much  of 
 it  left.  It  flushes  out  with  new  growth 
 every  year  and  and  just  comes  back 
 beautifully,  beautifully.  And  it  happens 
 so  fast.  It's  like  a  blink  of  an  eye. 
 So,  it's  definitely  worth  the  cut  back 
 to  the  rear  of  this  silver  odora.  I  know 
 it's  going  to  be  hard  for  you  guys  to 
 see,  [music] 
 but  I've  got  three  Sanchezia  that  are 
 going  to  climb  up  this  tree  and  give  us 
 a  nice  5ft  bit  of  [music]  pop  of  color 
 that  are  going  to  love  that  filtered 
 light,  that  are  going  to  enjoy  it  so 
 much  in  their  new  home.  I  I  can  already 
 see  them  just  like,  you  know,  just  going 
 to  town  right  there.  [music]  And  they're 
 going  to  give  us  a  good  yellow  and  green 
 contrast  against  the  silver  centerpiece. 
 And  then  we  did  the  same  thing  over 
 here.  It's  kind  [music]  of a  rinse  and 
 repeat.  You  guys  know  I  love  to  do  that. 
 We've  got  the  pentas  here.  Dashed  in 
 with  a  little  bit  of  gold  mound  here. 
 [music]  And  then  yet  again,  only  two. 
 And  you  guys  know  I'm  a  plant  stuffer. 
 If  I  could  fit  more  in  there,  I  would. 
 But  because  of  [music]  the  the  size  of 
 this  bed,  I  could  only  fit  two  in  here 
 and  let  them  connect  and  really  fill  in. 
 They'll  come  into  this  height  and  be 
 gorgeous  [music]  Sanchezia  cluster  right 
 into  this  corner.  And  then  of  course  now 
 we  also  have  the  ending  point  with  the 
 antiloo  as  our  final  little  corner  piece 
 to  our  bush  plantings  for  this  wall.  So 
 we  are  at  the  final  stages,  the  final 
 corner  as  this  bed  wraps  around.  This  is 
 the  ending  point.  You  can  see  this  is  a 
 different  environment  altogether.  We're 
 getting  great  sun  from  this  backside. 
 This  is  an  area  where  I  got  to  splurge  a 
 little  bit  with  room  and  color.  Right 
 along  this  front,  I  brought  my  favorite 
 blew  my  minds  in.  I  couldn't  use  them 
 over  there,  but  I  could  definitely  use 
 them  right  here.  And  then  I've  got  a 
 little  dash  three  of  the  bugan  villia 
 right  here  on  this  corner.  They're  not 
 in  bloom  right  now,  but  they're  going  to 
 be  busting  with  blooms.  They're  going to 
 be  3x3,  so  fully  connect.  These  three 
 plants  will  turn  into  one  big  bush  here 
 and  be  a  striking  [music]  pink.  And  why 
 I  chose  the  Helen  Johnson  bug  and  is 
 because  I  have  the  pink  pentas  over  on 
 that  side.  [music]  So  when  you're 
 looking  at  this  as  a  whole,  we've  got 
 the  variegation  of  the  song  of  India 
 like  the  [music]  variegation  in  the 
 Sanchesia.  We've  got  the  pink 
 buganvillia  because  we've  got  the  pentas 
 there.  You  can  see  kind  of  how 
 everything  comes  together  and  it's  it's 
 a  different  plant  but  it's  a  similar 
 feel.  So  it's  like  the  garden  is  just 
 [music]  in  tune.  It's  the  perfect  song, 
 you  know.  And  then  one  of  my  favorite 
 plants,  one  of  Bryce's  favorite  plants 
 [music]  too  is  the  song  of  India.  If  you 
 guys  are  looking  for  a  cluster  plant 
 grouping  that  is  striking,  [music] 
 interesting,  but  not  too  formal,  cluster 
 in  some  song  of  India  together.  They're 
 so  versatile.  You  can  let  them  get  10 
 foot  tall  if  you  want.  Not  my  favorite 
 way  to  let  them  be.  Or  you  can  let  them 
 cluster  like  this.  They  will  connect 
 together.  They  will  find  each  other  like 
 a  little  family  unit.  And  they  will  hold 
 together  like  this.  And  all  you  have  to 
 do  is  just  clip  them  as  needed.  You  clip 
 the  tops  of  them  off  of  whatever  it  is 
 you  don't  want.  If  you've  got  one  that's 
 a  little  too  hairy  carry  for  you,  maybe 
 it  shot  up  too  fast,  then  you  just  take 
 that  off  and  they  get  chunkier  and 
 fuller  and  bushier,  they  can  literally 
 stay  once  they're  connected  that  size 
 their  whole  [music]  life  by  just 
 trimming  as  needed.  And  I  think  people 
 don't  trim  them  because  they  don't 
 realize  that  you  can  [music]  take  those 
 heads  off  and  keep  them  kind  of  chunky 
 and  bushy.  So,  that's  a  that's  something 
 I  want  to  get  out  there  because  I  love 
 this  plant  and  I  love  to  see  it  in  more 
 gardens  and  I  think  it  is  such  a  cool 
 unique  look.  [music]  it  just  doesn't  get 
 used  enough  because  I  think  people  just 
 let  it  get  too  big  thinking  it's  a  big 
 plant.  But  I  promise  you,  you  will  be 
 happy  with  using  a  cluster  of  these  here 
 and  [music]  a  cluster  of  these  there  to 
 jazz  up  a  spot.  How  to  cover  those  pesky 
 outdoor  [music]  units,  whether  it's  pool 
 equipment  or  an  AC  unit  or  whatever  it 
 is  that  you're  trying  to  cover  on  the 
 side  of  your  house  or  maybe  your  HOA  is 
 requiring  you  to  cover  that  or  a 
 generator  or  whatever  that  might  be. 
 Commonly,  I  come  to  homes  [music]  and 
 it's  covered  like  this.  I  didn't  do 
 this.  This  was  already  done  and 
 established  before  I  got  here,  but  you 
 can  see  that  there's  sandwiched  in  colia 
 on  both  sides  of  an  AC  unit.  I  mean, 
 it's  not  the  end  of  the  world.  It's 
 obviously  working  for  what  it's  supposed 
 to  be  doing.  It's  just  not  super 
 attractive,  but  you're  going  to  want  to 
 just  maintain  it  off  of  the  unit.  So, 
 there's  just  a  little  bit  of  extra 
 maintenance  on  that,  and  it  really 
 serves  no  beautiful  purpose.  So,  the  way 
 that  I  like  to  do  it  when  we're  working 
 with  it,  we  had  some  extra  Kucia  that 
 were  actually  planted  in  the  front  yard 
 right  underneath  of  a  window.  This  is 
 the  same  Kucia.  It's  from  the  original 
 builder's  [music]  package.  So,  we  took 
 it  out  of  the  front  yard  where  it  can 
 now  grow  like  it's  supposed  to  and  we 
 pushed  it  along  and  put  it  along  the 
 front  of  all  of  the  pool  equipment 
 that's  over  here.  So,  this  guy  is  going 
 to  get  about  6t  tall  matching  the  new 
 Kucia  hedge  that's  coming  in.  And  then 
 we  left  a  walkway  space  in  [music] 
 between  the  two  areas.  Now,  you  can  dull 
 this  up.  You  can  do  whatever  you  like  to 
 this  area,  but  you  can  maintain  this 
 separation.  So  you  can  easily  come 
 through  here,  get  in  here,  go  to  the 
 walkway,  and  nothing,  [music]  no 
 shrubbery  or  hedging  or  any  kind  of 
 tools  or  anything  is  going  to  be  right 
 up  against  this  unit.  You  want  to  kind 
 of  keep  this  clear.  Look  how  much  space, 
 how  [music]  much  access  this  gives.  And 
 no  one  will  be  the  wiser.  Once  this  is 
 5,  6t,  7t  tall,  whatever  they  plan  on 
 doing,  this  will  be  your  wall.  Then  your 
 wall  continues  here,  leaving  you  a  fancy 
 little  doorway  here  that  I  could  see  a 
 garden  gate  coming  in.  If  you'd  like, 
 you  could  plant  low  plants  here  of  your 
 choice.  But  really,  I  kind  of  love  how 
 easy  and  accessible  [music]  this  little 
 spot  is  right  here.  If  you  guys  have  a 
 similar  [music]  situation  to  this  area 
 and  you're  not  kind  of  sure  what  to  do 
 with  it,  I  love  this  combination  of 
 plants.  I  took  three  5gallon  little 
 dwarf  tree  jasmine.  These  guys  are 
 chunky  and  small.  If  you've  watched  my 
 backyard  tour,  you  know  that  I  love  the 
 way  these  guys  just  move  and  the  breeze. 
 They're  just  so  soft.  will  bloom  all 
 year  long  with  their  white  flowers  and  a 
 yellow  center.  They're  going  to  come  in 
 and  [music]  be  5,  six  foot  tall  right  on 
 this  wall.  Kind  of  give  it  some  cool 
 interest.  They're  going  to  be  softer 
 than  the  hedge  that's  going  to  be  firmly 
 all  the  way  around  it  offering  a  bit  of 
 warmth  in  this  spot.  Now,  it  doesn't 
 have  to  be  this  particular  plant.  It 
 could  be  something  like  a  Rafus  palm  if 
 you  have  shade,  something  that's  going 
 to  kind  of  grow  on  the  wall,  a  cat  palm. 
 If  you  wanted  something  more  formal,  it 
 could  be,  you  know,  a  nice  blueberry 
 tree  with  some  underplantings  on  it,  but 
 something  that's  just  going  to  kind  of 
 give  you  a  little  punctuation  [music] 
 that's  a  little  bit  different  than  the 
 rest  of  the  garden.  So,  just  to  kind  of 
 soften  each  side  of  the  walkway.  [music] 
 So,  when  you  come  out  this  way,  you  have 
 something  beautiful  to  look  at.  This 
 almost  like  a  little  courtyard  setting 
 as  you  walk  through  here.  Imagine  these 
 formal  [music]  and  beautiful  and  tall 
 and  nice  and  tight  and  that  wall  behind 
 us.  And  then  just  really  feels  like  this 
 whole  [music]  backyard  once  everything 
 grows  in,  it's  private.  they're  going  to 
 get  a  jungle  [music]  forest  of  their 
 making,  which  is  absolutely  what  they 
 wanted.  So,  I'm  so  glad  you  guys  joined 
 us  today.  Please  check  out  our  book  if 
 you'd  like  to  see  more  of  these  tropical 
 favorites  and  how  to  use  them  in  your 
 garden.  If  you  enjoyed  today's  garden 
 tour,  then  check  out  last  week's  video 
 of  a  builder's  package  [music] 
 gone  tropical.  Thank  you  guys  so  much 
 for  visiting  with  me.  I  hope  you  enjoyed 
 it.  Take  care.

---

 [music] 
 Well,  hello  gardeners.  [music]  Bryce  and 
 I  are  in  Vero  Beach,  Florida  today  and 
 we  are  going  to  tour  this  lovely  front 
 yard.  We're  in  zone  10A  in  the  Bent  Pine 
 community. 
 >> [music] 
 >> This  is  the  new  section  and  my  friends 
 Pam  and  Harold  contacted  us  to  create  a 
 design  and  install  [music] 
 their  front  yard  landscaping.  So,  what 
 they  had  originally  here  was  the 
 builder's  package  and  that's  a  typical 
 thing  that  a  lot  of  us  new  homeowners 
 get.  It  was  a  a  great  thing  to  get  them 
 started.  We  used  some  of  the  material 
 within  the  package.  However,  it  didn't 
 really  [music]  customize.  It  didn't  fit 
 the  house.  So,  when  we  met  with  Pam  and 
 Harold,  we  wanted  to  make  sure  that  we 
 fit  the  design  based  on  the  house.  So, 
 we  focused  on  the  roof  lines.  We  focused 
 on  how  to  anchor  and  really  create  some 
 emphasis  in  the  front  yard.  Kind  of  take 
 it  from  that  basic  [music]  package  to 
 more  elaborate,  more  stature,  really 
 really  fit  the  house  because  the  house 
 is  [music]  absolutely  stunning.  It  just 
 lacked  it  had  some  lackluster  feel  when 
 it  came  to  the  landscaping.  So  now  the 
 landscaping  fits  the  house.  All  in  all, 
 everybody  is  super  happy.  I  wanted  to 
 share  it  with  you  guys  so  that  way  we 
 can  walk  through  and  you  can  see  some  of 
 these  plant  combinations  and  some  of  the 
 things  that  we  did  in  case  your  house 
 has  a  kind  of  a  similar  feel  or  similar 
 vibe  and  you're  like,  "Oh,  I  kind  of  see 
 how  that  lines  up.  I  kind  of  see  how  I 
 can  do  this  for  my  own  space  and  and 
 really  make  this  happen."  And  if  those 
 of  you  guys  need  more  than  that,  if 
 you're  looking  to  have  a  landscape 
 package  done  for  you  or  an  installation 
 done  for  you,  we  offer  both  of  those 
 services.  So,  we  are  a  landscape  design 
 and  installation  company.  do  offer  a 
 full  landscape  design  package,  like  a 
 full  master  plan  that  either  you  can 
 work  off  as  a  DIY  homeowner  or  hand  it 
 to  a  landscape  company  and  then  have 
 this  type  of  style  embedded  in  into  your 
 own  space  but  maybe  work  within  your  own 
 community  on  it.  Or  if  you're  just 
 looking  for  just  a  a  tough  area  that 
 you're  needing  some  work  done  in  your 
 own  space,  we  do  virtual  consult. 
 [music]  So  it's  a  1-hour  consult  with 
 myself  and  we  kind  of  walk  through  your 
 area,  talk  about  some  options  and  some 
 ideas.  I  overlay  it  on  my  program  so  you 
 can  get  a  good  visual  of  kind  of  what 
 might  work  for  your  particular  space. 
 [music]  But  reach  out  to  Marissa.  She'll 
 give  you  all  the  details,  all  the  ins 
 and  outs,  and  just  see  if  we're  a  good 
 fit  for  you  guys.  I'm  hoping  that  that 
 comes  across  in  today's  video.  And  these 
 are  some  things  that  you  guys  can  take 
 away.  So,  let's  just  jump  right  into 
 this  tour.  Come  on.  Well,  you  guys,  I 
 know  I'd  love  to  start  with  the  accents, 
 the  really  [music]  cool  features,  the 
 interesting  things  of  the  whole  project, 
 but  of  course,  I'm  going  to  start  with 
 the  fundamentals.  I'm  going  to  start 
 with  exactly  why  we  did  what  where 
 [music]  first,  and  we  will  get  to  that 
 in  just  a  second.  So,  as  I  stand  right 
 here  in  this  driveway,  the  thing  [music] 
 that  I  saw  the  most,  the  biggest 
 impression  that  I  saw  in  this  whole 
 front  space  is  [music]  that  fantastic 
 entrance,  that  awesome  doorway,  those 
 columns.  So  many  homes  [music]  have  that 
 framing  feel  right  by  the  front  door. 
 And  then  replicating  that  just  outside, 
 kind  of  giving  you  more  of  an  estate 
 vibe  by  kind  of  pulling  that  out.  I  did 
 two  double  foxtail  palms  to  again  flank 
 that  and  kind  of  give  us  another  type  of 
 column  feel.  So  I  think  these  guys  are 
 doing  a  fabulous  job  of  really  kind  of 
 overemphasizing  that  by  bringing  that 
 out.  And  you'll  notice  that  I  do  that  a 
 lot  in  my  landscapes.  Right  behind  us,  I 
 did  the  same  thing  with  those  inset  with 
 those  little  blueberry  trees.  I  love 
 framing  with  landscaping.  I  love  the  way 
 that  that  kind  of  outlines  a  cool 
 architectural  detail.  So,  if  you  guys 
 have  that  in  your  own  house,  if  you  have 
 that  that  cool  spot  in  your  front 
 entrance  way  or  maybe  a  setback  or  an 
 open  wall  feel  and  you  can  create  and 
 put  something  that's  just  kind  of  a  cool 
 showstopper  in  that  particular  area,  it 
 draws  your  eye  right  to  that  space. 
 [music]  It  instantly  gives  it  impact. 
 And  I  think  that's  what  these  trees  are 
 doing  for  us  right  here.  They're  about 
 14t  tall.  They  have  beautiful  trunk  base 
 to  them.  [music]  I  just  absolutely  love 
 them.  I  love  them  patterned  like  this  in 
 a  Vshape.  If  these  were  to  be  put  on  a 
 corner  area,  I  would  take  them  from  like 
 this  space  like  [music]  this  flat 
 against  the  road  to  a  corner  area  right 
 on  the  corner.  So,  just  kind  of  angle 
 them  versus  straight  [music]  on.  But  in 
 this  particular  format,  I  love  them 
 straight  on  as  a  nice  Vshape.  And  then 
 when  I  have  a  foxtail  palm  or  when  I 
 have  something  that  has  a  clean  trunk  to 
 it,  I  kind  of  plan  for  the  future. 
 That's  what  these  piggy  date  palms  are 
 doing.  So,  these  pygmy  palms  are  going 
 to  be  our  green  screen  behind  them.  You 
 don't  know  how  often  I  see  in  landscapes 
 where  I'll  see  a  tree  here  and  then  I'll 
 see  a  pigment  8  palm  in  front  of  it 
 because  it  makes  sense,  right?  It's  a 
 smaller  tree.  It  should  be  to  the  front. 
 However,  that  does  nothing  to  me.  It 
 kind  of  hides  the  whole  impact  of  the 
 space.  I  like  a  backdrop  of  something 
 soft  and  fluffy.  It  gives  you  kind  of  an 
 underplanting  kind  of  feel.  So  having  a 
 pygmy  8  palm  wrap  around  the  rear  side 
 of  it,  kind  of  nestle  it  in,  it  makes  it 
 so  where  this  tree  when  it  becomes  30 
 foot  tall,  this  tree  no  longer 
 disappears  because  this  tree,  which  is 
 going  to  be  9  to  10t  tall,  is  going  to 
 frame  and  wrap  all  the  way  around  it, 
 kind  [music]  of  giving  it  an  under 
 canopy  type  of  substance.  So  that's  kind 
 of  why  I  like  to  pair  these  two  together 
 in  this  particular  spot.  If  you're  going 
 to  do  a  foxtail  palm,  it's  ideal  to  do 
 it  about  7  to  8t  off  the  house.  This 
 tree  here  is  8t  off  of  the  house.  That 
 way  it  gives  you  plenty  of  room  to  kind 
 of  be  away  from  the  canopy  or  the  corner 
 pieces  [music]  of  the  roof  line.  And 
 with  the  pigmentate  palm,  four  to  five 
 foot  off  the  house  is  ideal  because 
 these  are  such  soft  fronds.  This  [music] 
 is  not  going  to  do  anything  to  hurt  the 
 walls.  You  kind  of  want  this  almost  to 
 soften  your  corner  area.  So  I  commonly 
 will  [music]  put  them  close  enough  to 
 the  house  and  they're  perfectly  fine. 
 They're  going  to  naturally  want  to  go 
 towards  the  sun.  [music]  So,  this  tree, 
 even  though  it's  positioned  right  here, 
 is  going  to  end  up  more  in  line  here  and 
 going  to  hug  this  tree  and  come  around 
 this  way  to  really  kind  of  give  us  that 
 that  folding  feel  that  we're  looking  for 
 in  the  landscape,  but  it's  going to  be 
 looking  for  the  sun.  So,  it's  really 
 going  to  give  you  kind  of  a  a  nice 
 [music]  softness  and  pull  away  from  the 
 house  line  even  more.  And  you'll  get  to 
 see  that  we  just  did  that  in  two  other 
 areas.  So,  this  palm  right  here  was  part 
 of  the  original  landscape.  It  was  just 
 far  [music]  too  close  to  the  house,  so 
 we  pulled  it  out.  Now,  because  the 
 corner  beds  are  not  the  front  beds,  we 
 had  more  room  to  work  with  here.  I 
 pulled  this  tree  out  [music]  and  then 
 pushed  this  pydate  palm,  which  was  part 
 of  the  original  builder's  package. 
 Relocated  it  back  here  and  shifted  it  to 
 the  right  of  the  tree  a  little  bit  just 
 to  kind  of  give  us  kind  of  more  of  an 
 anchor  feel  because  we  had  plenty  of 
 room  to  work  with  there.  And  I  did  the 
 exact  same  thing  on  the  opposite  side, 
 the  far  right.  And  I  love  how  each 
 corner  matches  itself  and  then  the  two 
 front  entrance  matches  itself.  So,  it 
 gives  it  kind  of  a  streamline  feel  and 
 then  it's  a  way  to  take  your  space  when 
 you're  on  the  far  corners  of  your 
 property  of  extending  it  out  as  far  as 
 absolutely  possible.  So,  if  you  could 
 take  and  wrap  those  [music]  trees  in 
 those  and  your  accents,  whatever  they 
 might  be,  further  out  on  the  corners  and 
 then  really  layer  down  from  there,  then 
 you're  going to  make  your  house  feel 
 like  you're  framing  it,  not  your  not 
 that  you're  hiding  it.  So,  [music] 
 you'll  notice  when  I  put  material  to  the 
 front  of  a  house,  it's  usually  tall, 
 linear,  long.  [music] 
 The  only  areas  that  I'm  trying  to  keep  a 
 little  bit  of  substance  or  thickness  is 
 just  kind  of  to  give  that  area  a  little 
 bit  of  a  backdrop,  but  other  than  that, 
 everything  near  the  house  [music]  is 
 kind  of  big  and  open.  One  design  element 
 that  I  really  want  to  make  sure  to 
 stress  [music]  to  get  across.  One  thing 
 that  I  use  on  every  single  project  is  I 
 definitely  definitely  work  with  the 
 layers.  As  you  guys  know,  I  love  the 
 strategy  of  having  frame  trees,  having 
 backdrop  trees,  but  bringing  in  the 
 depth.  To  me,  that  is  one  of  the  biggest 
 things  that  get  missed  on  your 
 traditional  builder's  package.  They'll 
 bring  in  big  trees  because  you  have  to 
 have  a  certain  amount  of  those,  right? 
 They'll  bring  in  um  some  rows  of  bushes 
 because  you  have  to  have  a  certain 
 amount  of  those,  but  nobody  calls  for 
 depth.  You  really  need  that  layered 
 feel.  You  need  your  larger,  your  stature 
 trees,  but  then  you  need  that  backdrop, 
 that  intermediate  mix,  those  layers  that 
 really  kind  of  add  a  little  bit,  just 
 kind  of  really  draw  your  eye  from  the 
 bottom  all  the  way  up  instead  of  from 
 the  bottom  to  [music]  the  top  and  then 
 you  lose  out  in  between.  And  because  we 
 don't  have  big  lots  here  in  Florida, 
 it's  hard  to  do  that  because  there's  not 
 a  lot  of  space.  So,  you  got  to  make  sure 
 that  you  really  hit  key  areas  to  do  that 
 in.  And  that's  kind  of  why  when  I'm 
 focusing  on  a  design,  that's  the  one  of 
 the  first  things  I'm  looking  for. 
 Obviously,  where  the  big  trees  are  going 
 to  go  next,  where's  the  depth  going  to 
 go  that's  not  going  to  cover  critical 
 areas.  You  don't  want  to  put  your  depths 
 right  in  front  of  that  that  doorway  or 
 right  in  front  of  that  main  window  that 
 you  want  to  see.  You  want  to  put  it  in 
 key  areas,  but  you  want  the  whole 
 landscape  to  come  together.  So,  I  feel 
 like  this  house  did  that  pretty  [music] 
 well.  I  feel  like  we  have  open  areas 
 where  we  need  them.  We  have  depth  where 
 we  need  them.  And  we  have  the  [music] 
 color,  the  impact,  the  layers,  you  know, 
 some  cool  accent  features.  We  have  all 
 those  things  [music]  where  you  need 
 them.  So,  I  felt  like  this  design  came 
 together.  Now,  this  is  a  really  young 
 design,  so  kind  of  keep  that  in  mind 
 [music]  as  it  matures.  It's  really  going 
 to  grow  into  seeing  those  drifts  and  big 
 groups  of  color  and  all  those  those 
 things  come  together  in  a  matter  of  six 
 to  eight  months.  That's  all  going  to 
 come  together.  But  I  want  to  show  you 
 guys  this  because  this  is  the  time  that 
 everybody's  out  in  their  garden 
 planting.  This  is  the  time  to  really  get 
 out  there  and  enjoy  it  in  Florida 
 because  the  next  few  months  are  going  to 
 be  gorgeous.  They're  going  to  be  perfect 
 to  be  outside  drawing  some  ideas,  kind 
 of  putting  this  together,  put  this  on 
 paper  for  your  own  particular  house.  And 
 hopefully  that'll  help  you.  And  then  if 
 you  need  more  than  that,  give  us  a  shout 
 because  we  would  love  to  help  you  with 
 your  own  design.  But  let's  jump  into 
 this  front  section  of  the  garden  and  how 
 I  created  the  depth  here.  And  then  we'll 
 work  into  the  next  section  of  the  bed 
 and  where  that  depth  lies  [music]  there. 
 In  this  particular  area,  we  have  several 
 different  varieties,  different  heights 
 of  trees.  And  that's  kind  of  what  where 
 your  eye  kind  of  rest  right  right  at  the 
 intermediate  trees,  that  5  to  6  ft 
 range.  So  if  you're  looking  at  this 
 space  here,  there  is  not  a  lot  of  room 
 here.  This  is  pretty  much  an  easement 
 just  past  this  5ft  mark  at  the  edge  of 
 this  bed.  So  we're  having  to  fit  a  lot 
 of  material  into  that  space  or  a  lot  of 
 impact  [music]  into  that  space.  So  we've 
 got,  you  know,  the  depth  here  with  the 
 pygmy  8  palm,  something  around  that  five 
 foot  range  right  here  of  height.  We 
 [music]  go  up  to  the  foxtail  palm.  So 
 you  can  see  we're  doing  this  with 
 different  heights  of  the  varieties  of 
 trees.  Then  it  drops  back  down  to  this 
 double  Christmas  palm, 
 then  back  [music]  down  to  this  pygmy  8 
 palm,  and  then  back  up  to  the  foxtail 
 palm.  [music]  Next  thing  it's  going  to 
 go  into  is  the  agave  in  that  list.  Then 
 it  goes  into  your  intermediate  bush 
 plantings  like  the  Croins  or  the 
 variegated  arbicas.  Then  it  goes  into 
 your  foxtail  ferns  for  the  lower.  Then 
 it  goes  into  your  ground  cover  like  the 
 blew  my  mind.  So  you  kind  of  see  that 
 you  take  those  levels  and  those  layers 
 from  your  smallest  plant  of  your  ground 
 cover  all  the  way  to  your  biggest 
 [music]  tree.  And  that's  that  waterfall 
 effect.  That's  what  when  it  comes 
 together  and  you're  like,  I  kind  of 
 don't  know  why  I  like  that  landscaping 
 over  maybe  that  landscaping,  but  it  just 
 works  because  that's  exactly  what  you 
 want  to  do.  You  want  to  layer  it  on  your 
 house.  hit  the  hot  spots  of  your  house, 
 but  bring  in  those  layers  to  give  you 
 that  height,  [music]  that  intermediate 
 depth,  that  lower  depth,  and  then  again 
 the  layering  effect  with  your  plants. 
 And  then  then  you're  golden. 
 All right,  so  next  we  are  working  on  the 
 accents.  [music]  Now  it's  time  for  the 
 the  dynamic  things,  the  things  that  are 
 going to  like  just  kind  of  pop  and  and 
 really  catch  your  eye.  And  to  me,  agave 
 do  that  so  well.  Just  just  about 
 anything  vertical.  agave,  dune  palms, 
 birds  of  paradise,  anything  along  those 
 lines.  That's  what  draws  your  eye, 
 giving  it  something  vertical.  Then  you 
 can  really  wrap  color  in  different 
 layers  around  those  features.  So  right 
 here  we  have  three  fall  agave.  They're 
 planted  about  5  foot  on  center.  So 
 they're  planted  about  5  foot  apart  from 
 one  another  from  the  center  of  each 
 plant.  Really  giving  them  kind  of  a 
 almost  like  a  triangular  formation 
 around  this  area.  I  didn't  want  to  hide 
 the  house.  There's  not  a  lot  of  wall 
 space  on  this  particular  area,  but  we 
 have  so  much  weight  on  the  right  side  of 
 the  driveway  that  I  couldn't  put  that 
 much  weight,  that  many  palm  trees  like 
 we  have  on  the  right  side  as  we  do  as  we 
 need  on  the  left.  If  you  don't  have  that 
 kind  of  room,  do  that  [music]  with 
 features.  Do  that  with  something 
 substantial,  whether  it's  a  water 
 feature  or  a  statue  [music]  or  a 
 grouping  of  really  cool  plants,  do  that 
 in  that  area.  And  I  love  having  an  open 
 wall  to  work  with.  I  could  have  put 
 something  on  the  walls  themselves.  I 
 could  have  done  something  along  those 
 lines,  but  I  really  do  like  the  way 
 these  fals  agave  frame  [music]  this 
 front  bed.  And  we  had  the  challenge  of 
 the  propane  tank  that  sits  right  here 
 that  goes  this  whole  length.  So,  it 
 really  kind  of  forced  me  to  [music]  push 
 this  bed  forward  and  engulf  a  bigger 
 planting  here  with  some  lower  ground 
 cover.  So,  you  guys  know  what  that's 
 like.  You  have  to  work  with  what  your 
 yard  dictates.  [music] 
 And  then  once  you  have  those  features 
 like  that  in  place,  then  you  can  dial  in 
 little  clusters,  little  [music]  pops  of 
 color  around  them  because  they're  almost 
 like  the  supporting  cast  in  a  great 
 movie,  you  know,  you've  got  the  movie, 
 you've  got  the  features,  you've  got  the 
 stars.  Now  it's  time  to  bring  in  the 
 compliments.  Now  it's  time  to  bring  in 
 the  lipstick  and  mascara,  the  things 
 that  are  really  going  to  showcase  those 
 things.  We  have  a  backdrop  of  beautiful 
 Mammy  Croins.  They  could  stay  that  size 
 forever  if  the  clients  want  them.  I  love 
 the  rounded  formation  they  give.  I  think 
 leave  them  just  like  this.  They  can  let 
 them  chunk  out  a  tiny  bit,  but  overall  I 
 wanted  to  bring  them  in  with  some  good 
 size.  Now,  when  you  have  smaller  plants 
 or  dwarf  plants  like  the  mammy  croins, 
 it's  a  good  idea  to  bring  them  in  at  a  7 
 or  10  gallon  size  because  that's  really 
 going  to  give  you  that  instantaneous 
 layering.  If  I  brought  them  in  because 
 they're  such  a  slow  grower,  if  I  brought 
 them  in  at  a  smaller  size,  it's  going  to 
 take  forever  to  really  get  them  to  kind 
 [music]  of  create  and  do  this  type  of 
 look  right  off  the  bat.  The  cost 
 difference  isn't  huge.  Better  just  to 
 get  five  [music]  and  do  it  first  time 
 with a  big  material,  dwarf  material  at  a 
 larger  size  if  [music]  it's  your 
 backdrop.  So  you  don't  have  to  worry 
 about  trimming  or  shaping.  My  clients 
 are  kind  of  golden.  They  just  kind  of 
 have  to  continue  doing  what  they  see 
 here.  It's  not  going  to  be  a  lot  of 
 maintenance  [music]  for  them  to  figure 
 out  that  these  are  higher  or  those  are 
 less  high  and  those  are  less  high  and 
 those  are  less  high.  So  they  kind  of  the 
 patterns  already  in  place.  They're  just 
 maintaining  the  pattern  from  now  on  till 
 they  don't  have  to  any  longer.  All 
 right,  you  guys.  So  let's  get  back  to 
 the  accents  [music]  though.  So  you  can 
 see  that  these  three  are  doing  the  trick 
 right  here.  And  then  of  course  anytime 
 you  have  something  on  the  right  side  and 
 you're  able  to  replicate  at  least  a 
 piece  of  that.  [music]  It  doesn't  have 
 to  be  the  same  plant,  but  a  resemblance 
 of  that  type  of  feature  on  the  opposite 
 side,  then  it  really  gives  you  a  good 
 feel  for  it.  Like  you've  got  good 
 balance.  So  we've  got  an  agave  on  that 
 corner  just  to  kind  of  give  us  a  little 
 final  of  what  we  experienced  on  this 
 side  over  here.  So  you  can  kind  of 
 really  see  the  balance.  However,  this  is 
 a  fun  thing  because,  and  this  is  going 
 to  happen.  It's  going  to  happen  to  all 
 you  landscapers  out  there,  all  you 
 gardeners  out  there.  You're  going  to 
 have  one  of  these  features  that  are 
 going to  just  pop  up  in  your  garden. 
 You're  going  to  be  like,  "Okay,  what  do 
 I  do  with  this?"  So,  this  is  a  giant 
 propane  tank  right  here  that  goes  the 
 expanse  of  this  area  here.  I  put  some 
 ground  cover  here.  That  way,  when  they 
 do  need  to  get  in  here,  they  can  easily 
 trim  back  that  little  edges  of  the 
 ground  cover.  It's  plenty  far  enough 
 away  for  them  to  do  that  and  access  this 
 space.  But  because  this  bed  loops  out  at 
 such  a  weird  way  right  here,  because  I 
 had  to  encompass  this  instead  of  leaving 
 this  in  the  grass  like  it  was  originally 
 left  during  the  [music]  builder's 
 package,  I  incorporated  another  pop  out 
 feature.  So  bringing  in  this  cool  coina 
 boulder  with  some  [music]  nice  grooves 
 in  it  and  some  nice  curves  in  it  to  give 
 us  little  areas  so  that  where  we  can 
 accent  around  it  I  thought  was  just  the 
 thing  that  we  needed  because  sometimes 
 you  can't  cover  something  lay  [music] 
 over  plants  all  over  this  thing  and 
 cover  this  up  because  it  needs  to  be 
 accessed.  The  best  thing  that  you  can  do 
 is  draw  the  eye  somewhere  else  and 
 that's  exactly  what  this  feature  does 
 for  it.  So  this  whole  purpose  of  this  is 
 going  to  really  captivate  and  say,  "Oh, 
 what's  going  on  over  there?  That's  kind 
 of  interesting.  I  kind  of  like  that 
 look.  So,  that's  exactly  what  this 
 feature  is  meant  to  do.  Now,  this  is 
 really  going  to  come  together  as  this 
 landscape  grows  in.  It's  very  young,  but 
 you  guys  [music]  can  see  the  potential. 
 You  can  see  the  possibility  of  how  cool 
 this  is  going  to  be.  We  took  this 
 boulder,  we  angled  it  up.  So,  all  you  do 
 is  you  kind  of  tilt  it  forward,  pack  it 
 with  soil  on  the  back  side  of  it,  and 
 then  kind  of  angle  it  into  where  it 
 looks  like  it's  coming  right  out  of  the 
 earth.  Like,  it's  really  just  naturally 
 that  way.  And  then  halo  around  it  with 
 whatever  plants  of  choice.  You  guys  know 
 I  love  the  foxtail  ferns  when  it  comes 
 to  boulders.  I  love  the  blue  flame  agave 
 and  these  antennuadas,  the  foxtail 
 agave.  I  just  think  they're  so  cool. 
 They're  cute  now,  but  when  they're  big, 
 they  are  phenomenal.  I'll  get  Bryce  to 
 pop  a  picture  of  what  those  look  like  as 
 clusters.  Those  will  reproduce  very 
 slowly,  and  they'll  be  one  of  those  that 
 reproduce  that  you  will  not  hate,  unlike 
 a  lot  of  the  some  of  the  other  agave 
 that  do  reproduce.  These  two  guys  are 
 thornless.  These  guys  have  a  little 
 point,  but  overall  are  generally  soft, 
 almost  like  a  succulent  type  of  feel. 
 Those  [music]  have  absolutely  no  thorns. 
 Easy  to  work  with.  And  when  they 
 reproduce,  they  like  crown  out.  They 
 rotta  out  a  lot  like  a  succulent  does, 
 [music]  which  makes  them  even  more 
 beautiful  as  they  get  older.  I  wish  they 
 did  it  faster,  but  it'll  take  a  couple 
 years  for  them  to  [music]  really  start 
 to  do  that.  But  you  can  kind  of  see  how 
 this  is  a  break  in  the  design.  There's 
 nothing  else  like  this  in  the  whole 
 space.  You  got  a  boulder,  you're  framing 
 the  boulder.  This  is  a  key  feature.  This 
 is  the  charm  of  the  front  gardens  of  the 
 necklace.  I  just  I  just  love  that.  I 
 think  that's  so  cool.  And  then  we  went 
 with  the  tough  [music]  stuff,  you  know. 
 We  went  with  things  that  are  really 
 going  to  hold  up.  We've  got  some 
 Pinocchio  Croins  to  the  back.  These  guys 
 are  going  to  get  big  and  [music]  chunky. 
 They  stay  full  to  the  bottom.  So,  you're 
 going  to  have  color  up  here  all  the  way 
 to  the  base.  These  are  a  great  plant  to 
 not  have  to  worry  about  having  to  cover 
 those  bases.  You  can  leave  those  bases 
 exposed  because  they're  going  to  be 
 gorgeous,  [music]  full  of  color  from  top 
 all  the  way  to  their  base  and  be 
 stunning  backdrops.  Variegated  overcola 
 because  Pam  and  Harold  had  tons  of 
 these.  They  had  so  many  from  the 
 original  builder's  package  that  we  used 
 them  and  relocated  them  within  this 
 landscape.  We  did  that  with  several 
 things  in  this  garden,  you  guys.  So, 
 even  if  you  got  the  most  basic  things  in 
 your  landscapes  that  came  with  your 
 builder's  package,  don't  be  afraid  to 
 reutilize  them  into  the  garden  because 
 sometimes  it  is  worth  it.  Variegated 
 avocados  transplant  super  well.  This 
 foxtail  palm,  as  pretty  as  it  is,  came 
 with  the  originals  builder's  package. 
 So,  we  reused  that,  replanted  it,  put  it 
 in  good  soil,  and  reused  it.  That 
 Christmas  palm  we  were  talking  about 
 earlier,  also  came  from  the  original 
 builder's  package.  And  then  [music]  this 
 piggy  8  palm  came  from  the  original 
 builder's  package.  all  were  picked  up 
 and  moved  to  fit  the  space  [music] 
 properly  to  frame  the  space  the  best  way 
 that  that  we  could  with  this  landscape 
 with  this  home.  So  [music]  sometimes 
 they're  there,  they're  just  in  the  wrong 
 spot.  So  just,  you  know,  musical  chairs 
 with  them,  just  move  them  all  around. 
 And  then  now  because  we've  got  a  little 
 bit  of  wild  and  crazy,  you  can  see  these 
 two  [music]  front  tiers,  these  two  front 
 layers,  very,  very  formal,  very  compact, 
 very  [music] 
 clean  lines,  cuz  that's  what  Pam  wanted. 
 She  wanted  a  clean  line  landscape.  She 
 wanted,  this  is  a  front  yard.  She  wanted 
 a  very  nice  curb  appeal.  We've  got  some 
 crazy  things  going  on  in  the  back.  Some 
 color,  some  pop,  some  interest.  Now, 
 it's  time  to  take  and  border  [music] 
 these  things  with  a  nice  precise  line 
 with  the  gold  mounds  with  the  Carissa 
 boxwood  here  with  the  blue  my  minds. 
 This  is  we're  just  tapering  and  pairing 
 back  the  front  of  the  garden.  Letting 
 the  crazy  be  in  the  back  and  the  more 
 controlled  plants  to  the  front. 
 This  will  highlight  those  agave  more 
 than  if  I  were  to  put  in  a  bunch  of  lush 
 and  crazy  material.  I  had  a  little  room 
 for  a  little  touch  of  a  variety  of  a 
 different  color.  So,  we've  got  four  and 
 only  four  Taiwanese  dwarf  exoras  right 
 here.  And  then  on  the  left  side,  I  did 
 the  same  thing  for  just  a  little  pop  of 
 color  for  just  a  little  swath.  And  you 
 guys  see  how  I  curve  them.  So  right  here 
 we  have  where  we've  got  just  got  two  and 
 then  they  curve  around  this  agave. 
 Almost  like  just  giving  it  a  little 
 support,  a  little  framing.  [music] 
 Same  with  that  side.  Sometimes  four  is 
 all  you  need  on  each  side.  And  that's 
 exactly  what  these  called  for.  I  cannot 
 wait  to  see  it  all  [music]  come 
 together.  I  can't  wait  to  see  it  in  a 
 good  year.  It's  really  going  to  have  a 
 lot  of  different  levels  for  the  amount 
 of  space  that  we're  working  with.  So  you 
 [music]  guys  get  it.  You  get  the  point 
 on  this  side  of  the  garden.  Now,  this 
 side  over  here,  because  it's  laid  out 
 differently,  I  wanted  this  to  have  a 
 different  [music]  type  of  feel.  It 
 doesn't  need  as  much  impact  as  that  side 
 did  because  we  don't  have  any  blank 
 walls  that  we're  looking  with.  We  don't 
 have  a  flat  surface  that  we're  working 
 on.  We  have  an  elongated  area.  We  have 
 where  the  driveway  goes  up,  squares 
 [music]  off  right  here.  It's  a  whole 
 different  feel,  whole  different  look. 
 So,  we  started  out  with  a  familiar  feel 
 as  what  we  have  over  there  to  this  front 
 because  they're  going  to  match  when 
 you're  looking  from  the  road.  They're 
 going  to  give  you  the  same  type  of  look. 
 you  kind  of  want  that  to  continue.  And 
 then  all  we  did  was  we  kept  the  same 
 color  palette  as  we  moved  to  the  back. 
 So  we  had  the  same  yellows,  the  same 
 reds,  the  same  blues,  but  it  is  a 
 different  plant  grouping  all  together 
 because  it  is  a  different  space  there. 
 And  when  you're  doing  your  planting, 
 just  kind  of  keep  this  in  mind.  It's  not 
 always  just  about  the  texture  changes  or 
 the  leaf  changes.  It's  about  the  color. 
 You  want  to  go  dark,  [music]  light, 
 dark.  Replicate  that.  You'll  notice  that 
 I  do  that  through  all  of  my  landscapes. 
 Everything's  all  grown  in  together. 
 There's  no  space  in  between.  The  mulch 
 is  fully  covered.  That  dark  [music] 
 light  dark  light,  that's  like,  wow,  that 
 I  just  I  don't  know.  It  feels  like  we 
 have  a  lot  of  color  there.  But  in 
 reality,  you  only  have  a  handful  of 
 colors.  It's  [music]  just  because  the 
 contrast  is  so  sharp.  And  where  there's 
 not  a  sharp  contrast,  there's  a  sharp 
 leaf  contrast.  A  sharp  type  of  where 
 this  is  a  fuzzy  leaf  or  this  is  an 
 upright  leaf  where  this  is  a  rounded  or 
 shiny  leaf.  If  you  can  do  that,  that'll 
 take  you  from  your  basic  landscape  to 
 more  of  your  complexity  to  more  of  that, 
 wow,  that  that's  that  was  designed  by  a 
 true  designer.  That  was  really  well 
 done.  And  that's  kind  of  what  I  hope  to 
 get  across  in  these  videos.  There  is  a 
 rhyme  and  a  reason  to  this  type  of 
 landscaping.  So,  if  you're  researching, 
 [music]  which  you  guys  are,  cuz  that's 
 why  you're  watching.  If  you're  gardeners 
 and  you  enjoy  this  kind  of  content,  then 
 you're  you're  learning  as  you  go,  which 
 is  awesome.  If  you  follow  kind  of  just 
 these  guidelines,  these  steps,  then  just 
 replicate  those  steps  [music]  and  you're 
 you're  set  for  success.  you  know,  if  you 
 put  things  all  willy-nilly  in  and  you're 
 kind  of  not  sure  why  you  don't  like 
 them,  a  good  reason  behind  that  is 
 probably  because  some  of  those  steps  got 
 skipped.  That's  kind  of  the  beginner 
 mistakes  that  a  lot  of  us  make.  I've 
 read  some  comments  this  morning  that  I 
 just  warm  my  heart  from  my  last  video 
 and  and  I  get  them  through  several 
 different  videos  throughout  the  year  and 
 I  absolutely  love  reading  them.  Those  of 
 you  guys  who  have  purchased  things 
 because  you've  seen  things  on  the  video 
 or  you  did  this  process,  this  particular 
 layout  and  oh  my  gosh,  it  turned  out  so 
 great.  you're  all  excited  about  it  and 
 you're  you're  sending  it  to  me  in  a 
 comment  that  feeds  my  soul.  [music] 
 That's  a  big  part  of  what  we're  doing 
 here.  Just  the  community,  the 
 interaction,  the  hey,  I  did  this  and  it 
 [music]  worked.  Imagine  that.  [laughter] 
 I'd  love  to  hear  it  and  then  I'll  tell 
 Bryce,  "Hey,  did  you  read  this  comment?" 
 Super  cool.  You  know,  that  just  gives  us 
 some  some  really  good  energy.  So,  I 
 appreciate  you  guys  just,  you  know, 
 taking  your  time  out  of  your  day  to  to 
 respond  [music]  and  say,  "Hey,  I  tried 
 this.  It  worked.  It  was  cool."  Or,  "I 
 liked  this  that  you  said  here,  as  you 
 said  there."  keep  that  coming  because 
 those  are  the  kind  of  things  that  like 
 my  I  want  to  make  sure  to  reinccorporate 
 because  I  know  that  that  hit  home  with 
 somebody  that  really  made  a  difference 
 and  that's  pretty  darn  cool  I  would  say. 
 So,  um  all right,  so  let's  just  jump 
 over  here  to  this  front  section  and  then 
 we'll  continue  with  the  video.  All 
 right,  so  we're  now  on  the  inside  of 
 this  big  PA  driveway.  This  this  area  is 
 huge.  So,  we  didn't  have  a  lot  of  room 
 to  work  with,  but  I  knew  that  because 
 there's  so  much  driveway  space,  so  much 
 [music]  big  wall  space  on  this  house, 
 the  scale  had  to  be  something  had  to  be 
 something  substantial.  We  couldn't  kind 
 of  leave  this  area  out.  So,  we  did  what 
 we  could  with  a  little  bit  of  room.  We 
 have  4  and  1/2  ft  of  width  along  this 
 side  here.  Um,  this  is  one  of  those 
 trees  that  came  with  the  original 
 builder's  package.  So,  I  incorporated 
 here  for,  you  name  it,  some  depth.  We 
 needed  some  depth  right  here,  some  lower 
 impact  compared  [music]  considering  we 
 had  two  big  trees  on  either  side.  So 
 again,  we  are  back  here  in  the  middle 
 where  we  dropped  this  [music]  down  in 
 between  the  foxtails,  in  between  the 
 pygmies  to  give  us  that  other  layer  of 
 tree  height.  So  this  is  playing  with 
 those  [music]  numbers.  Now,  I  know  many 
 of  you  guys  are  probably  going  to  be 
 like,  why  didn't  you  put  this  dead 
 center  of  this  flat  spot?  Because 
 [music] 
 in  reality,  when  I  would  be  laying  that 
 out  on  a  plan,  I'd  be  looking  at  that 
 and  saying,  "Okay,  [music]  this  bed 
 needs  to  be  centered  on  this  driveway." 
 And  in  most  cases,  that's  absolutely  the 
 way  you  want  to  do  it.  But  because 
 [music]  these  two  beds  blur  the  lines  of 
 these  corners,  I  actually  focused  in  on 
 the  center  between  these  [music]  two 
 planting  beds  because  we  have  a  big 
 double  foxtail  palm  here  with  a  pygmy 
 palm  here  and  a  big  landscape  bed  that 
 wraps  around  this  corner.  It's  [music] 
 it.  And  then  we  had  the  same  thing  that 
 drops  down  this  way.  I  wanted  to  make 
 sure  that  this  tree  is  more  centered  on 
 the  landscaping  and  not  centered  on  the 
 hardscape.  And  I  see  that  often  in  a  lot 
 of  land  even  architectural  plans.  I'll 
 see  that  [music]  often  where  they're  not 
 actually  thinking  about  the  home  or  the 
 footprint.  They're  thinking  about  the 
 line  items  and  how  things  match  up.  You 
 kind  of  want  to  visually  make  sure  that 
 your  landscaping  [music] 
 depth  is  right  where  it  needs  to  be.  And 
 because  the  neighbor  had  another  tree 
 and  a  plant  grouping  behind  there,  I 
 felt  dropping  [music]  this  down  was 
 going  to  be  the  better  solution  for  this 
 particular  area.  You  guys  will  have  to 
 let  me  know  what  you  think.  Should  it  be 
 centered?  [music]  Should  it  not  be 
 centered?  But  that  leads  us  to  this 
 small  little  section  over  here.  Now, 
 this  was  was  a  little  bit  of  a  tough 
 one.  This  is  an  easy  area,  you  guys,  to 
 over  [music]  landscape.  I  see  it  all  the 
 time.  There'll  be  three  or  four  tiers 
 here  and  it'll  go  to  town.  I  have 
 [music]  been  guilty  of  that  myself 
 because  I  have  a  hard  time.  If  there's 
 room,  plant  it.  That's  kind  of  my  my  my 
 thought  process  on  things,  but  that's 
 not  always  the  case.  Sometimes  you  got 
 to  let  everything  else  work  around 
 [music]  it  and  then  let  this  be  an  easy 
 care  situation  because  that's  exactly 
 what  this  will  turn  into.  This  was  their 
 trouble  problem  from  the  beginning.  You 
 can  probably  tell  why  because  I  can 
 barely  see  [music]  because  I'm  standing 
 right  in  the  sun.  This  is  full  sun 
 morning  to  night.  This  area  gets  crazy 
 sun,  crazy  hot.  You  get  the  heat  from 
 the  wall,  you  get  the  heat  from  the 
 papers.  It  bounces  into  this  area  and 
 there's  very  little  soil  in  this 
 planting  bed.  So,  it's  like  fries.  So, 
 one  of  the  things  that  I  love  to  work 
 with  in  these  areas  is  either  like  a 
 foxtail  fur,  a  carissa  boxwood,  or  if  we 
 need  something  more  dressy,  a  little  bit 
 more  color,  the  dwarf  alamandas.  They 
 get  bushy.  They  get  3x3.  So,  they  go  out 
 this  way  and  come  up  to  3t  tall.  You  do 
 have  to  leave  room  for  them  to  do  that. 
 And  that's  exactly  why  we  have  nothing 
 else  in  this  bed.  They'll  bush  out  and 
 become  just  a  nice  clustering  of  yellow 
 and  greens  right  here.  These  bloom  10 
 months  out  of  the  year,  so  you  get  tons 
 and  tons  of  that  tulipy  [music]  kind  of 
 color.  Great  little  plant.  And  they 
 don't  get  the  legggininess  that  you  have 
 to  worry  about  with  the  regular 
 alamandas.  If  I  put  the  regular 
 alamandas  here,  they  would  get  a  little 
 bit  taller.  However,  you'd  have  to  put  a 
 skirt  at  the  [music]  bottom.  And  I  just 
 didn't  feel  like  there  was  enough  room 
 for  both  of  these  in  this  particular 
 environment.  [music] 
 I  did  have  a  little  bit  more  room  in  the 
 opposite  side.  So,  I  did  do  that  here 
 because  we  had  this  extra  little  bit  of 
 width  here.  I  was  able  to  put  Cararissa 
 boxwood.  [music]  Again,  I  didn't  go  with 
 anything  too  crazy  here,  too  delicate, 
 not  no  blew  my  minds,  nothing  that's  too 
 super  soft.  I  went  with  something  that 
 was  tough,  had  a  strong  [music]  root 
 base  that  could  really  handle  this  type 
 of  heat  and  flourish.  So,  these  are 
 going  to  be  a  great  dark  green  outline 
 to  a  more  paler  kind  of  chartreuse  kind 
 of  green  in  the  uh  leaf  here  with  the 
 bright  yellow  tones  of  the  flowers 
 underneath  this  window.  And  I  just  think 
 that  that's  going  to  be  a  nice 
 compliment,  a  nice  a  [music]  nice  bit  of 
 just  just  enough  because  we  did  enough 
 everywhere  else.  It'll  just  kind  of  be 
 the  little  finishing  touch.  Kind  of  need 
 a  little  bit  of  subtle  feel  and  that's 
 exactly  what  these  two  two  planters  are 
 offering  in  this  space.  This  is  going  to 
 be  a  nice  lowmaintenance  area  for  them 
 in  the  future  because  we  had  these  two 
 setbacks.  We  have  two  blueberry  trees 
 really  fit  in  this  spot  nicely. 
 Blueberry  trees,  for  those  of  you  guys 
 who  are  not  familiar  with  them,  can  stay 
 this  size  forever.  You  can  keep  them 
 this  height  by  just  trimming  these  tops 
 off  and  then  kind  of  just  softly  pruning 
 along  this  side  as  needed.  You  can  let 
 them  get  six  to  eight  foot  tall.  I've 
 seen  them  25  foot  tall  or  you  can  keep 
 them  six  foot  tall  forever  and  ever  and 
 ever.  They're  a  great  choice  if  you  guys 
 have  just  that  perfect  little  nook  that 
 you're  trying  to  frame  the  architecture 
 of  a  house.  I  think  they  do  a  nice  job 
 of  insetting  and  they  just  [music]  don't 
 get  too  crazy  on  you.  All right,  you 
 guys.  So,  you  got  to  see  it  from  start 
 to  finish.  That's  this  project.  I  hope 
 you  enjoyed  it.  I  hope  it  gave  you  some 
 tidbits  [music]  of  information.  Those  of 
 you  guys  who  are  waiting  for  our  book, 
 it  is  coming  out  very,  very  soon.  It  is 
 in  final  production  stages.  I'm  hoping 
 to  have  it  in  the  show  notes.  if  not  in 
 this  video,  maybe  the  next  video,  but  it 
 is  kind  of  talking  about  what  we  talked 
 about  here  today.  It  is  going  on  about 
 uh  the  plants,  everything  you  need  to 
 know  about  some  of the  toughest  Florida 
 plants  that  I  use  every  single  day,  how 
 to  maintain  them,  who  they  like  to  live 
 with,  who  they  like  to  roommate  with, 
 and  who  they  live  with  really,  really 
 well.  Just  kind  of  how  you  do  and  work 
 with  them  in  combinations.  Just  a  little 
 bit  of  information  from  this  landscaper 
 to  you  guys.  I  hope  you  enjoy  the  book. 
 I  hope  you  enjoyed  today's  video.  And  if 
 you  did,  then  check  out  last  week's 
 video  of  my  personal  garden  tour  selfie 
 style.  This  was  just  me  and  you  guys 
 chitchatting  and  walking  through  the 
 garden.  So,  I  hope  you  guys  like  it. 
 Take  care.

---



---

 All  right,  you  guys.  We  are  going  native 
 today.  Well,  native  and  Florida 
 friendly.  So,  today's  garden  tour  is  in 
 Melbourne,  Florida.  This  is  a  70% 
 allnative  garden  and  the  remaining  is 
 Florida  friendly.  This  is  an  HOA 
 requirement  for  this  particular 
 community.  So,  it  really  put  me  to  the 
 test,  but  more  importantly,  it's  going 
 to  answer  that  question.  Can  native 
 plants,  can  a  native  entire  yard  really 
 look  beautiful  long  term?  I  get  this 
 question  often.  and  why  don't  you  use 
 more  native  material  within  your 
 gardens?  And  I  do  some.  However,  in  most 
 cases  of  my  professional  landscape 
 career,  native  material  has  a  tendency 
 to  really  get  overrun.  And  a  lot  of  my 
 designs  are  full  and  lush.  So, 
 incorporating  something  like  that  can  be 
 a  little  bit  challenging,  but  life 
 happens.  And  in  this  particular 
 community,  they  were  like,  hey,  it's  got 
 to  be  done.  So,  my  particular  clients 
 that  I'm  working  with  on  this  project,  I 
 worked  with  them  on  a  previous  project 
 of  their  home,  and  they  like  very  clean 
 lines.  Very  tropical,  lush,  but  clean 
 lines.  So,  I  am  really  happy  with  how 
 this  has  turned  out.  Let's  start  off 
 with  the  island  directly  behind  me.  We 
 really  wanted  to  anchor  this  large  house 
 with  some  big  trees.  Now,  these  right 
 here  are  Florida  royals,  and  I  think 
 they're  absolutely  stunning  for  this 
 front.  They're  really  going  to  give  us 
 that  kind  of  height  quickly.  And  of 
 course,  as  you  guys  know,  they  grow 
 quite  tall  up  into  that  40  foot  range. 
 So,  they're  really  going  to  take  off  and 
 kind  of  really  frame  the  corners  of 
 this,  you  know,  quite  large  house.  So, 
 if  you  have  a  twotory,  royal  palms  are 
 ideal.  If  you  have  a  single  story  and 
 it's  kind  of  on  the  smaller  side,  I  tend 
 to  go  more  with  foxtails  or  King 
 Alexander  or  regular  Alexanders  for 
 that.  But  because  we  had  so  much 
 grandness  with  this  particular  house  and 
 all  of  this  PA  and  hardscape,  Florida 
 royals  were  ideal  because  they're  really 
 going  to  be  able  to  handle  that  cold 
 temper  just  a  little  bit  better.  this 
 little  guy  right  here,  which  I  think  is 
 super  cute,  super  compact.  This  is  an 
 aricuri  palm.  So,  it  is  a  Florida 
 friendly  palm.  Very,  very  drought 
 tolerant,  very,  very  tough  for  a  little 
 tree  and  maxes  out  around  15  to  16t 
 tall.  So,  it  doesn't  get  quite  large. 
 This  is  always  going  to  be  a  nice 
 understory  tree.  As  you  walk  your  way  up 
 to  the  landscape,  it's  going  to  be  a 
 nice  intermediate  kind  of  feel  with  its 
 kind  of  cascading  umbrella  feel.  So,  I 
 think  that's  really  cool.  But  as  for 
 some  of  the  smaller  native  plants  in 
 this  little  bed,  we've  got  right  from 
 this  beginning  here,  these  have  become  a 
 fan  favorite  for  me  just  because  of  this 
 gorgeous  white  flower  on  it.  These  are 
 viburnum.  They're  called  Mrs.  Schillers. 
 They're  the  dwarf  variety  and  they  offer 
 this  real  compact  shape.  And  what's 
 great  about  these,  if  you  don't  get  in 
 here  to  trim  heavily,  that's  okay 
 because  these  guys  stay  small,  they  stay 
 compact,  really,  really  easy  to  care 
 for.  And  I  like  anything  that  stays 
 chunky  and  where  you  put  it  for  any 
 period  of  time  without  you  having  to  do 
 that  for  it.  So  I  think  they're  ideal. 
 I've  really  used  them  as  a  great  framing 
 tool.  So  I've  used  them  as  my  kind  of  my 
 border.  They're  going  to  be  a  dark  green 
 border.  They  bloom  all  spring,  all 
 summer,  and  it  looks  like  pretty  much 
 into  fall  depending  on  your  area  of 
 Florida  that  you're  in.  But  they  can 
 handle  temps  well  below  freezing.  They 
 can  go  all  the  way  to  that  Jacksonville 
 area.  So,  those  of  you  guys  who  are 
 looking  for  a  nice  clean  native  compact 
 group  planting,  these  are  going  to  be 
 ideal.  Coming  in  about  this  size,  really 
 chunking  out  to  about  this  size  and 
 becoming  a  nice  swath  of  a  very 
 controlled  almost  like  a  a  natural  soft 
 boxwood  type  of  look.  I've  got  a  break 
 with  the  boulder  and  then  I  have  them 
 kind  of  curving  up  into  the  bed  there. 
 So,  we  keep  that  kind  of  dark  line.  And 
 you'll  notice  anywhere  I  put  a  dark 
 line,  if  I  can't  do  something  bright,  I 
 find  something  with  a  little  bit  of 
 color.  So,  these  are  native  purse  lanes. 
 They're  the  pink  variety,  and  they're 
 going  to  kind  of  give  us  a  break  in  this 
 darkness  here,  kind  of  framing  this 
 boulder  and  giving  us  a  little  bit  of 
 interest.  And  then  we've  continued  on 
 with  the  Mrs.  Schiller's  viburnum  right 
 here, 
 which  you  guys  are  probably  quickly 
 guessing  is  one  of my  new  favorite 
 accents.  This  is  the  yucka  restrada.  It 
 is  a  Florida  friendly  plant.  Beautiful 
 drought  tolerant  accent.  can  handle 
 those  cold  temperatures  all  the  way  up 
 north  into  Jacksonville.  This  little 
 tree  can  do  really,  really  well.  Once  it 
 matures  out,  it  grows  into  a  really  cool 
 stem.  This  is  perfect  if  you  guys  want 
 to  keep  it  something  really  interesting 
 and  uniformed  in  a  pot.  I've  had  designs 
 where  I  have  a  long  narrow  space  and  a 
 client  wants  something  pretty  dynamic  on 
 a  wall  and  I  put  these  tall  tubular  pots 
 and  framing  them  with  three  of  these 
 kind  of  coming  up  the  walkway. 
 absolutely  gorgeous  because  it's  very 
 easy  to  get  these  to  match  one  another 
 where  other  agaveies  it  can  be  really 
 hard  to  get  them  to  grow  in  a  pattern. 
 So  these  guys  are  just  a  great  punch  of 
 color.  I  love  their  silver  tone  to  them. 
 Just  kind  of  looks  really  really  unique 
 and  I  think  it's  going  to  fit  in  so 
 well.  I  have  one  on  this  side  of  the 
 driveway  and  we'll  get  to  that  in  a 
 minute,  but  I  have  one  on  the  opposite 
 side  of  the  driveway.  So  it  looks  like 
 as  these  guys  grow  in  together  they'll 
 frame  each  end  of  the  driveway  really 
 really  nice.  To  the  back  I  have  some 
 Wuigilia  or  daisy  carpet  flowers.  These 
 are  very  aggressive  growers.  They're 
 going  to  really  kind  of  give  us  a  swath 
 of  about  a  foot  and  a  half  to  two  foot 
 of  ground  cover.  Beautiful  coloring. 
 These  bloom  that  yellow  daisy  like  look. 
 Really,  really  tough.  Can  handle.  If  you 
 guys  have  rabbit  problems,  the  rabbits 
 tend  to  leave  these  guys  alone.  They're 
 really  a  perfect  ground  cover.  They  do 
 need  room  to  spread.  So,  I  wouldn't  put 
 like  two  and  then  a  bunch  of  plants  near 
 them  and  then,  you  know,  two  and  a  bunch 
 of  plants  near  them.  I  would  give  them 
 their  own  space.  So  I  usually  create 
 like  a  little  swath  with  those.  I  want 
 them  to  be  a  backdrop  of  yellow  here, 
 pink  up  here,  and  then  framing  the  sides 
 over  here  with  the  greens.  So  that  way 
 we  have  a  really  good  sandwich  effect  of 
 like  a  pop  of  color  when  everything 
 matures  and  grows  slowly.  I  think  I 
 mentioned  you  guys  that  this  is  a  very 
 young  landscape.  We  literally  just 
 finished  yesterday.  Back  here  is  a 
 native  silver  buttonwood.  And  you'll 
 notice  that  anytime  I  bring  in  one 
 silver  thing,  especially  if  I  have  a  lot 
 of  greens,  silver  can  be  a  color  that 
 can  really  contrast  against  those 
 greens.  We're  doing  greens,  reds, 
 silvers,  and  yellows  because  it  really 
 just  kind  of  blends  in  so  nicely  with 
 lights  and  darks.  So,  this  is  going  to 
 kind  of  create  a  hedge  along  this  curved 
 walkway  path  here.  Really  giving  us  a 
 bright  spot.  As  when  you're  looking  from 
 the  road,  you  get  the  reds  of  the  dwarf 
 exoras  and  the  dark  greens  and  white 
 tones  of  the  Mrs.  Shillers,  viburnum, 
 and  then  it  and  of  course  the  yellows 
 and  the  pinks.  I  think  it's  just  all 
 going  to  really  really  come  together 
 really  nice.  So,  this  is  going  to  be  a 
 fantastic  little  grouping  for  some 
 pollinators,  especially  when  you 
 consider  these  dwarf  little  psycho 
 coffee  plants.  So,  these  are  more  the 
 compact  version.  A  lot  of  times  you'll 
 see  this  variety  big  and  wild  and  crazy. 
 Those  bloom  a  beautiful  big  cherry  kind 
 of  berry.  This  is  one  of  my  favorites 
 because  this  can  stay  compact.  It  can 
 stay  lush.  It  can  stay  thick.  And  I  tend 
 to  use  this  underneath  a  tree  planting 
 just  like  you  see  here.  They  do  need  a 
 little  protection  from  the  sun.  However, 
 when  they're  in  this  grouping,  they're 
 just  going  to  fluff  out  like  this  and 
 like  this  and  become  a  nice  4ft 
 backdrop,  almost  like  a  circular  light 
 coloration  of  green.  And  we've  got  the 
 dark  greens  here  that  are  going to  be 
 real  dark.  We've  got  a  little  bit  of 
 that  chartreuse  green  in  these  guys.  And 
 then  of  course  we  have  the  dark  green 
 and  orange  to  the  front  of  the  dwarf 
 exoris.  So  that's  going  to  be  the 
 framework  for  our  silver  bismark  as 
 everything  really  grows  in.  So  I  hope 
 that  comes  together.  And  you  guys  will 
 notice  when  I'm  kind  of  creating  these 
 plans  to  put  them  together,  anytime  that 
 I'm  working  with  a  tall  grouping  of  palm 
 trees,  I  really  want  to  make  sure  to 
 stagger  them.  Look,  we  have  like  a 
 triangular  formation  of  these  royals 
 here.  And  then  of  course  it  leaves  us 
 open  for  a  centerpiece.  So  this 
 centerpiece  can  be  a  blooming  tree.  This 
 can  be  a  statement  palm.  It  can  be 
 anything  along  those  lines.  My  client 
 had  a  beautiful  large  bismar  in  his 
 backyard  from  his  previous  house  that  we 
 did.  And  so  he  wanted  to  replicate  that 
 with  another  bismar  but  in  the  front 
 yard  this  time.  So  we  found  the  perfect 
 spot  for  a  bismar  as  the  centerpiece 
 amongst  these  royals.  You  do  want  to 
 make  sure  though  if  you're  going  to 
 choose  a  bismar,  you  don't  want  your 
 larger  trees  to  be  something  like  King 
 Alexander's  or  something  that's  going  to 
 stop  growing  at  a  small  rate  because 
 these  royal  palms  get  so  big.  It  really 
 opened  up  the  gate  to  whatever  kind  of 
 centerpiece  tree  that  I  wanted  to  use. 
 This  tree  can  get  30  foot  tall  and 
 always  still  the  be  the  understory  tree 
 to  these  big  palms.  If  you  want 
 something  that's  going  to  be  like  a 
 bottle  brush  or  something  that's  going 
 to  only  grow  to  10  to  12  foot,  then  you 
 could  use  King  Alexander  as  your  frame 
 trees  or  foxtail  palms  or  anything  along 
 those  lines  because  you  don't  have  to 
 worry  about  that  kind  of  height 
 competing  with  each  other.  This  will 
 always  be  a  layered  effect.  These  guys 
 will  get  tall.  This  will  get  less  tall 
 and  that  little  guy  up  front  there  will 
 get  less  tall  lesser  lesser  tall.  So  So 
 it  becomes  kind  of  that  that  waterfall 
 pattern  that  you're  looking  for.  Over 
 here  we  have  a  nice  kind  of  small 
 planting  bed,  but  still  a  little  bit  of 
 power  going  on  here.  We're  working  with 
 silvers.  We're  working  with  natives.  And 
 I  love  the  silver  buttonwood  tree.  I 
 wish  you  guys  can  feel  it's  like  a 
 velvet  leaf.  This  texture  on  this  leaf 
 is  just  so  gorgeous.  Really  brings  in 
 the  birds.  Really  a  nice  feature  in  the 
 garden.  And  it  it's  a  hardwood  tree  that 
 you  guys  we  can  keep  like  this  forever. 
 You  can  keep  it  sheared  almost  like  a 
 topiary  effect.  It  can  be  this  small  or 
 it  can  be  much  much  larger.  So,  depends 
 on  your  space,  but  it's  willing  to  work 
 in  any  area.  It's  like  the  perfect 
 roommate.  It's  going  to  go  where  you  put 
 it.  So,  this  is  a  beautiful  soft  subtle 
 tree.  And  then  you  notice  that  we  have 
 some  silvers  that  it's  bouncing  off  of. 
 Silver  buttonwood  behind  us,  the  silver 
 bismar  behind  us,  and  of  course  the 
 silver  yucka  restrada  to  the  front.  When 
 everything  grows  in  together  and 
 everything  gets  really  large,  that's 
 when  those  colors  really  pop.  I  just 
 cannot  wait  for  that  to  happen.  down 
 below  the  silver  buttonwood.  This  is  a 
 nice  ocala.  This  is  a  beautiful  lush 
 little  bush.  Now,  this  bush  you  can  keep 
 at  4  to  5t  tall.  Really  fill  in  this 
 whole  corner  area.  Cover  up  these  pipes 
 that  it's  covering  here.  Gorgeous 
 Florida  native.  This  variety  of  anise 
 comes  in  this  biocala  variety  as  well  as 
 the  Florida  which  is  a  little  bit  more 
 yellow  in  color.  They  have  kind  of  a  a 
 licorice  kind  of  fragrance  to  them.  I 
 just  think  they're  really  really  cool. 
 They  kind  of  have  a  nice  dotted  area  of 
 yellow  flowers  and  just  really  really 
 bring  in  the  birds.  So,  if  you  just  kind 
 of  need  something  to  kind  of  fill  in  an 
 area,  but  you  want  to  make  sure  that  you 
 stay  native,  you  want  to  make  sure  that 
 you  can  stay  with  a  cold  tolerant, 
 tough,  can  handle  the  heat,  can  handle 
 all  the  combinations  of  a  sustainable 
 landscape,  then  these  guys  are  great. 
 They're  a  perfect  filler  plant.  Group 
 them  together.  It's  a  nice  ideal  way  to 
 do  it.  Everything  what  we  have  here  is 
 more  on  the  vertical  side.  We've  got  the 
 blueberry  trees  that  they're  going  to 
 allow  to  get  about  3T  taller  kind  of 
 coming  up  this  wall  here  and  then 
 stopping.  So,  we're  framing  the  window 
 line  with  these  blueberry  trees.  These 
 are  Japanese  blueberries.  They're  not 
 edible  blueberries.  This  is  a  Florida 
 friendly  plant,  not  necessarily  a 
 native,  but  it  is  great  for  the  birds. 
 They  nest  in  here  commonly.  Half  the 
 time  when  I'm  picking  them  up  from  the 
 nursery,  they  have  an  old  nest  in  there. 
 So,  they  nest  in  these  guys  quite  early, 
 but  they  become  such  a  cool  look.  They 
 get  a  little  bit  of  red  tips  to  the  end 
 of  it  during  fall.  So,  it  kind  of  gives 
 you  a  little  bit  of  that  color  change, 
 which  I  think  is  so  charming.  But  what  I 
 do  like  about  them  is  you  can  keep  them 
 this  size  forever  for  their  whole 
 lifespan  if  that's  what  you  choose.  You 
 can  keep  them  whatever  size  that  really 
 fits  your  space.  So,  if  your  walls  a 
 little  bit  shorter,  a  lot  of  us  have 
 these  little  nooks  on  the  insets  near 
 our  front  doors.  If  you  got  that  going 
 on,  these  guys  are  great  to  keep  kind  of 
 vertical.  They  can  handle  our  heat.  They 
 can  handle  our  cold.  What  they  don't 
 like  is  full  shade.  So,  anything  besides 
 full  shade,  they  can  handle  sun,  partial 
 sun,  baking  right  off  of  the  concrete. 
 They're  champs.  So,  Japanese  blueberry 
 trees  are  one  of  my  go-tos  because  you 
 can  keep  them  the  size  and  the  style 
 that  you  want  them  to  be.  So,  they're 
 almost  considered  like  a  softer  version 
 of  a  topiary,  more  natural.  Across  the 
 front  of  these  guys,  just  to  lighten  it 
 up,  I've  got  some  golden  dew,  some  gold 
 mounds,  and  they're  just  going  to  kind 
 of  fill  in  as  a  very  tight  hedge 
 underneath  this  Florida  thatch  palm.  So, 
 this  Florida  thatch  palm  grows  very 
 slow.  It's  the  little  bit  that's  the 
 wild  and  crazy  and  a  little  floppy 
 that's  going  to  go  here  because  we  do 
 have  some  framework  on  either  side. 
 We've  got  some  very  controlled  plants  to 
 the  front  with  the  dwarf  exoras  and  the 
 gold  mounds.  Why  not  jazz  it  up  with  a 
 little  bit  of  wild  with  the  thatch 
 palms.  So,  this  gave  us  our  native  touch 
 to  this  spot  as  well  as  our  dwarf  coffee 
 plants  to  the  back.  So,  they're  going  to 
 get  bushy  and  lush  and  about  4  foot  to 
 the  back  and  really  kind  of  give  us  that 
 tearing  effect.  So  4  foot  to  2  foot  to 
 around  2  to  2  and  1/2t  to  back  up  to 
 four  to  5  foot.  You  can  kind  of  see  how 
 that  pattern  goes  all  with  vertical 
 things  in  between  those.  This  bed  is 
 majority  all  native.  We  used  a  lot  of 
 these  Mr.  Schillers.  Just  kind  of  you 
 can  see  how  I  started.  I  have  a  dark 
 frame  here.  Then  I  have  them  curve  to 
 the  backside  here  and  then  they  swoop 
 forward.  And  what  they're  doing  is 
 they're  framing  this  needle  palm  right 
 to  the  front.  So  this  needle  palm  kind 
 of  gives  you  a  look  a  little  bit  like  a 
 lady  palm  or  a  rafus  palm,  but  it  grows 
 exceptionally  slow.  It  mounds  out  kind 
 of  more  of  a  bush  tree.  And  what  a 
 unique  kind  of  cool  fingered  kind  of 
 look  I  think  that  that  attracts.  So  this 
 will  not  spread.  It  will  not  kind  of 
 take  over  this  whole  space.  This  a 
 petite  a  small  a  dwarf  tree.  So  it  kind 
 of  gives  a  little  bit  of  a  a  slash 
 between  a  perotus  and  a  rafus  palm 
 without  the  negatives  of  what  parotus 
 offer  which  means  that  they  can  kind  of 
 take  over  a  spot.  We  chose  to  work  with 
 the  coina  boulders  and  then  kind  of 
 soften  them  with  yellow  lantana.  So 
 these  yellow  lantas  are  going  to  fold 
 over  top  of  this  boulder  and  then  right 
 to  the  front  are  going  to  be  those 
 native  pelanes  that  are  going  to  kind  of 
 droop  to  the  front.  So,  that's  going  to 
 really  give  you  a  really  nice  look.  And 
 I  love  how  it  gives  such  a  softness  to 
 this  gray  granite  stone.  I  love  using 
 gray  granite.  It's  going  to  pack  down 
 really  well,  especially  since  we  kind  of 
 have  some  moundy  areas  here  where  this 
 slopes  into  the  the  sidewalk.  This 
 granite's  going  to  hold  this  area  super 
 well.  Then,  we  have  a  small  centerpiece 
 of  a  European  fan  palm.  This  guy,  as  you 
 guys  know,  grows  slow.  We've  had 
 European  fan  palms  recently  in  a  lot  of 
 videos.  This  is  kind  of  what  their 
 natural  look  is  when  they're  very  young. 
 They  grow  into  beautiful  specimens  as 
 they  get  older.  This  one  has  four  or 
 five  trunks.  So  once  that  happens,  those 
 trunks  are  going to  be  showstoppers  as 
 they  get  bigger.  Right  to  the  front  of 
 this  guy  is  going  to  be  a  cool  large 
 coina  boulder.  And  then  again,  we  did 
 the  frame  work  that  we've  kind  of 
 followed  through  which  we  took  the 
 yellow  lantennas  and  the  pelanes  or 
 portterlockas  depends  on  what  you  guys 
 call  them.  And  just  so  we  didn't  get  too 
 formal,  we  went  with  some  mam  croins.  We 
 do  need  this  area  to  stay  nice  and  low. 
 That's  why  we  have  a  lot  of  low  material 
 here.  But  these  mami  croins  will  get 
 into  that  2  to  three  foot  size,  but 
 offer  a  bunch  of  bright  tones  of  color 
 as  they  mature.  They  can  handle  the  heat 
 off  of  the  rock  and  the  heat  off  of  the 
 driveway  and  still  give  color  and 
 impact.  So  that's  going  to  be  our  swath. 
 And  we  only  have  nine  of  these  guys. 
 Just  kind  of  a  backdrop  of  curves.  So 
 when  they  really  grow  in,  they're  going 
 to  be  like  this  and  just  connect 
 together  as  a  nice  pop  of  color  amongst 
 these  greens  and  then  softened  it  with  a 
 little  bit  of  flowers  to  the  front.  So 
 that  way  you  kind  of  have  like  you  kind 
 of  have  the  best  of  both  worlds  in  this 
 area.  And  then  that's  how  we  finished  it 
 off  you  guys.  We  have  now  started 
 another  swath  and  it  wraps  around 
 framing  the  needle  palm  and  then  ends 
 tapers  down  by  this  boulder  showcasing 
 the  boulder  yet  again.  So  this  wall 
 right  here,  you  can  tell  that  we  have  a 
 lot  of  weight  from  the  house  in  the 
 center.  And  over  on  this  side  here,  we 
 wanted  to  really  balance  this  out.  So  we 
 have  a  similar  bed  over  here  of  royal 
 palms  and  just  kind  of  a  a  nice  bit  of 
 impact  choosing  some  really  nice 
 legustrms.  These  are  going  to  be  tree 
 type  legustrums.  I  love  that  grape  viny 
 kind  of  look  as  they  really  mature  out. 
 I  think  they're  going  to  be  gorgeous.  My 
 client  really  likes  them  to  kind  of  be 
 rounded  like  a  mushroom,  flat  on  the 
 bottom.  Some  people  like  them  more  wild, 
 more  loose  like  a  tree.  Either  way,  they 
 always  have  that  cool  grape  viny  trunk. 
 So,  it  kind  of  really  gives  an 
 interesting  look  to  this  front  of  this 
 house.  So,  a  little  bit  of  chunk  on  the 
 sides.  We  kept  it  low  in  front  of  this 
 window.  They  definitely  want  to  see  out. 
 So,  all  we  have  here  is  some  gold  dust 
 croins,  which  are  Florida  friendly.  Some 
 teeny  tiny  foxtail  ferns  that  are  really 
 little  right  now,  but  are  really  going 
 to  do  a  nice  job  of  softening  between 
 these  two  plant  groupings  here.  some 
 golden  dues  that  along  to  the  front 
 and  then  this  is  a  spot  that  I  had 
 mentioned  about  the  dwarf  yucka  restrada 
 here.  So  we  have  this  flanking  the  other 
 entrance  of  the  driveway  around  a 
 boulder.  I  just  love  this  way  this 
 looks.  I  just  cannot  wait  to  see  these 
 guys  with  a  little  bit  of  trunk  popping 
 out  on  either  side  of  the  driveway  as 
 you're  coming  up  and  then  as  you're 
 leaving  the  house.  I  just  think  it's 
 going  to  be  gorgeous.  Again,  we  kept  a 
 similar  feel  with  the  portalakas  right 
 down  below  the  boulder  and  then  started 
 the  swath  of  color.  We've  got  some 
 Florida  friendly  dwarf  exoras  coming 
 across  the  front  to  the  back.  We  have 
 some  native  coffee  dwarf  coffee  plants 
 and  they  just  give  you  that  shiny  kind 
 of  chunky  leaf.  I  just  I  love  the  way 
 they  look.  And  then  right  here  on  this 
 blank  wall,  we  needed  something  a  little 
 bit  higher  cuz  you  guys  know  how  I  love 
 it  to  go  high,  low,  high,  low.  And  this 
 is  a  grouping  that's  going  to  kind  of 
 give  us  a  little  bit  of  a  raise  on  this 
 wall.  So,  it's  going to  give  us  a  little 
 bit  of  thickness.  And  then,  I  don't  know 
 if  you  can  see  directly  behind  me, 
 hopefully  as  that  tree  opens  up  to  the 
 back,  that  powder  puff,  pink  powderpuff 
 tree  will  be  part  of  the  front  yard 
 landscape  because  it's  kind  of  like  a 
 window  when  you  look  from  the  street. 
 That  way,  seeing  all  of  that  beautiful 
 soft  green  with  those  gorgeous,  gorgeous 
 powderpuff  pink  blooms.  And  then  we  drop 
 right  back  down  to  these  chunky  dwarf 
 coffee  plants.  So,  you  can  tell  we're 
 going to  get  tons  of  bird  traffic  here. 
 I  cannot  wait  for  that  to  happen.  It's 
 going  to  be  it's  just  going  to  be  so 
 cool.  So  cool  to  see.  Yellow  antennas 
 framing  the  boulders.  And  then  our 
 centerpiece  on  this  particular  side  is 
 also  a  silvery  toned  tree.  Now,  this 
 tree  will  get  more  and  more  silver  the 
 older  it  gets.  But  this  is  a  pendo  palm. 
 It's  very  young.  It  was  a  25gallon  palm 
 tree  when  we  put  it  in,  and  it's  going 
 to  really  get  some  great  size  to  it. 
 They  do  grow  kind  of  slow,  but  what  I  do 
 like  about  their  formation  is  they  kind 
 of  have  a  nice  tight  crown  in  the 
 center,  and  they  do  this  kind  of  like  a 
 fountain  does.  So,  I  think  that's  going 
 to  be  absolutely  gorgeous.  I  have  the 
 trees  out  wide  enough  to  where  this 
 canopy  is  going  to  curl  over  into  this 
 tree  trunk.  And  this  one  will  curl  over 
 into  that  tree  trunk  and  really  kind  of 
 frame  the  inside  of  this  as  this  tree 
 gets  a  little  bit  larger.  Oh,  and  I  did 
 forget  to  mention  the  Buda  edging.  Now, 
 I  know  the  edging  doesn't  show  up  great 
 without  grass  in  it.  But  this  beauty 
 edging,  I  feel  like  it  fits  in  so  well 
 with  this  house.  This  is  the  first  time 
 I've  used  the  charcoal  other  than  a  spot 
 in  my  own  garden  where  I  had  the 
 charcoal  as  kind  of  like  a  test.  I 
 wanted  to  see  how  it  looked.  I  love  the 
 way  it  looks  with  all  the  black  and  dark 
 trim  that  the  house  has.  I  think  it  ties 
 in  so  perfectly.  And  then  the  dark  kind 
 of  trim  that  they  have  on  the  pavers 
 really  kind  of  comes  together.  And  then 
 I  know  that  it's  going  to  do  what  it 
 needs  to  do.  These  mowers  in  this 
 community  are  like  all  other  mowers 
 where  they  come  in  quickly,  run  through, 
 weed  eaters  hit  these  guys.  So,  I  know 
 that  not  only  is  my  landscaping  going  to 
 be  sustainable,  but  this  beauty  edging 
 is  going  to  hold  up  to  that  kind  of 
 traffic  that  those  big  tires  running 
 over  top  of  it,  those  weed  eaters 
 slapping  and  hitting  it,  and  this  is  not 
 going  to  scuff  at  all.  This  is  going to 
 be  a  perfect  nice  little  edge  line.  Says 
 that  you  do  not  have  to  dig  these  in  at 
 all,  and  you  don't.  You  can  literally 
 set  the  edging  on  top  of  the  grass  and 
 hammer  the  nail  in  and  it's  perfectly 
 fine.  It's  perfectly  stable  at  that 
 point.  I  like  personally  the  way  it 
 looks.  If  you  can  take  a  little  bit  of  a 
 a  shovel  and  dig  a  couple  inches  out,  it 
 doesn't  have  to  be  anything  major,  but  a 
 couple  inches  out.  The  best  shovel  to 
 use  for  that  is  a  sprinkler  shovel  cuz 
 it's  long  and  narrow.  And  you  can 
 literally  after  your  line  is  drawn,  you 
 can  just  go  through  and  dig  2  in  out, 
 set  this  edging  in,  and  voila,  it  looks 
 like  it's  inset  into  the  ground.  I  even 
 do  that  with  my  boulders.  I  inset  the 
 edges  of  my  boulders  into  the  ground 
 because  I  like  that  look.  It  doesn't 
 look  like  something  set  on  top  of 
 anything.  I  like  that  everything  to  be 
 inset  and  really  have  a  place  in  the 
 gardens.  Just  a  little bit  of  tidbit  on 
 that.  Let's  continue  on  with  the  tour. 
 These  back  here  are  native  fire  bush. 
 Now,  a  lot  of  my  videos  showcase  regular 
 dwarf  fire  bush.  They  will  get  big,  but 
 you  can  keep  them  smaller.  These  guys 
 have  a  mind  of  their  own.  They  are  not 
 going  to  stay  the  size  that  you  want 
 them  to  stay  just  because  you  know  you 
 want  them  to  stay  there.  These  guys  are 
 going  to  naturally  get  six  to  seven  foot 
 tall  as  this  backdrop.  Now,  my  clients 
 are  aware  of  this.  This  is the  main 
 reason  why  I  don't  always  use  the  native 
 variety.  However,  if  you're  going  to  use 
 it,  use  it  as  the  wall  of  your 
 landscape.  Use  it  as  the  backdrop.  So, 
 we  have  got  in  this  bed,  we've  got 
 yellow  blooming  flowers.  We've  got 
 yellow  golden  dew.  We've  got  the  dark 
 coloring  of  the  chartreuse  coffee 
 plants.  We've  got  the  dwarf  exoras  to 
 the  front.  That's  all  beautiful  right 
 now.  But  once  we  can  hem  this  in  where 
 everything's  grown  in  together,  these 
 are  going  to  be  a  wall  of  these 
 beautiful  blooms  that  bloom  almost  all 
 year  long  because  they're  native.  You're 
 going  to  have  this  gorgeous  backdrop  of 
 a  6ft  wall  of  this  kind  of  coloring 
 that's  going  to  really  kind  of  bring  all 
 of  those  colors  out  in  the  front.  So,  if 
 you  have  to  use  these  guys  somewhere  or 
 you  want  to  use  these  guys  somewhere 
 because  they  really  bring  in  the 
 hummingbirds.  They  really  bring  in  all 
 the  birds.  If  you're  wanting 
 butterflies,  these  guys  are  going  to  be 
 your  go-to.  Just  make  sure  that  they're 
 not  in  the  front  of  your  garden.  They're 
 in  an  area  that  you're  prepared  for  them 
 to  get  bushy  and  full  and  tall.  So, 
 let's  move  on  to  the  side  here.  There 
 was  some  challenges  with  this  particular 
 side.  Those  of  you  guys  who  are  live  in 
 close  neighborhoods,  you're  probably 
 facing  some  of  those  same  challenges, 
 which  is  property  in  this  particular 
 house.  Even  though  that  it  feels  like 
 this  yard  has  some  expanse  to  it,  it  has 
 some  size  to  it.  We  had  restrictions  of 
 staying  10t  off  of  the  property  line 
 along  the  side  of  the  yard.  Really 
 really  had  to  be  cautious  about  really 
 spreading  gardens  out.  I  really  do  like 
 to  create  big  wavy  gardens.  That  way, 
 you  know,  you  can  really  kind  of  allow 
 things  to  fill  out.  You  have  plenty  of 
 room  for  it.  But  in  this  particular 
 garden,  every  part  of  it  was  compact. 
 However,  I  know  my  clients,  which  are 
 are  also  my  friends,  they  want  big 
 impacts.  It  was  a  challenge  to  make  sure 
 that  we  had  both.  So,  if  you  guys  are  in 
 that  boat,  then  you  know  what  HOAs  how 
 they  can  restrict  you.  So,  we  really  had 
 to  tighten  some  things  up  and  really 
 push  some  things  close  to  the  house  on 
 this  like  this  powderpuff  tree.  This 
 powderpuff  tree,  personally,  I  would 
 love  to  see  it  out  here  more  as  a 
 backdrop,  but  it  does  allow  us  to  see  it 
 as  part  of  the  front  bed  from  the  road. 
 So,  it  does  work  well.  They're  just 
 going  to  have  to  keep  it  maintained 
 because  if  you  guys  know  about 
 powderpuff  trees,  almost  give  you  that 
 Asian  style,  which  is  ideal  because 
 they'll  flatten  out  at  the  bottom, 
 really  push  out  on  the  ends  and  kind  of 
 give  you  kind  of a  mushroom  effect  to 
 the  top.  So,  they're  a  gorgeous  tree  to 
 work  with.  This  one  maybe  has  a  bloom  or 
 two  left  from  transplants,  but  not  a 
 whole  lot.  It's  going  to  really  flush 
 out.  Gives  you  all  summer  color  and 
 beautiful  for  the  birds.  So,  a  very 
 Florida  friendly  tree  can  handle  so  many 
 different  climates  and  it's  just  it's 
 just  going  to  really  take  over  this 
 side.  Hence  why  we  don't  have  anything 
 else  around  it.  It's  a  tree  that's 
 really  going  to  do  its  own  job.  We  again 
 we  have  the  Ocala  anise  on  either  side. 
 These  we're  going  to  allow  to  grow  into 
 little  trees  on  this  side.  Maybe  clean 
 up  the  trunk  a  little  bit  and  let  them 
 fill  in  above  the  wall  line.  And  then  of 
 course  the  silver  buttonwood  tree  is 
 also  another  Florida  native.  And  just  a 
 little  dash  of  the  Walters  Viburnum  Mrs. 
 Schillers  at  the  bottom.  Now,  this 
 particular  side,  we  were  limited  to 
 being  a  6ft  bed.  If  you  guys  can  see 
 over  to  the  side  here,  what  the  view 
 line  is  that  my  clients  are  dealing 
 with.  We'll  walk  inside  and  really  let 
 you  see  that.  But  really,  as  soon  as 
 this  house  was  built,  I  mean,  it 
 literally  looks  like  it  was  a  heart  of 
 this  house.  It's  that  close.  So,  we  came 
 in  with  some  45gallon  fishtail  palms, 
 and  we  had  to  put  them  close  to  the 
 house.  So,  these  fishtail  palms  are 
 about  10t  tall.  They're  really  going  to 
 fill  in  this  space.  Yes.  When  you  put 
 fishtail  palm  6  foot  off  the  house,  you 
 are  going  to  have  to  trim  those  trunks 
 closest  to  the  house  because  you're 
 going  to  want  to  make  sure  that  they 
 kind  of  grow  out  more  towards  the  rear 
 end  of  the  property  versus  along  the 
 house.  But  it's  a  totally  doable  thing. 
 I've  seen  fishtail  palms  put  in  pool 
 planters  that  are  3  foot  wide  and 
 produce  beautifully.  So,  you  can 
 absolutely  do  it  if  that's  a  question  on 
 your  mind  right  now.  These  are  going  to 
 become  a  great  wall  as  the  pool  backdrop 
 here,  which  is  also  going  to  do  a  great 
 job  of  getting  rid  of  this  giant  giant 
 second  story  right  next  to  them  within 
 feet  of  their  biggest  entertaining  space 
 that  they  have.  So,  they're  going  to 
 create  a  great  wall  there.  So,  they've 
 got  room  to  grow  in  and  just  a  little 
 bit  of  maintenance  for  my  clients  to 
 really  get  in  there  and  and  do  that 
 trimming.  Now,  that  is  absolutely 
 doable.  They're  going  to  grow  about  2  to 
 three  foot  per  year  and  really  kind  of 
 give  them  some  size.  So  they  want  to 
 feel  like  when  they  do  walk  back  here, 
 what  they  see  are  two  things.  They  want 
 to  see  a  beautiful  garden,  bronze  galore 
 over  on  one  side  and  feel  like  they're 
 not  in  a  neighborhood  and  the  next  thing 
 they  want  to  see  is  this  remainder  of 
 this  beautiful  little  lake  that  they're 
 sitting  on.  So  that  way  they  can  enjoy 
 it  fully  and  not  have  to  worry  about, 
 you  know,  feeling  like,  you  know, 
 they're  up  close  and  personal  with  with 
 any  neighbors.  So  that's  going  to  be  a 
 um  one  of  the  better  parts  of  this 
 natural  landscape.  Right  here  we  have  a 
 15gallon  gorgeous  false  agave  that  we 
 brought  in.  We  put  it  on  a  little  bit  of 
 a  hill.  Kind  of  looks  crazy  here,  but 
 from  inside  I  wanted  you  to  be  able  to 
 see  not  only  the  false  agave,  but  the 
 boulders.  So  we  raised  this  area  up  a 
 little  bit  so  that  way  you  can  see  that. 
 And  then  did  some  beautiful  little 
 yellow  lantana  carpet  flowers  for  this 
 bottom.  This  is  the  chunkier  variety. 
 The  ones  in  the  front  are  one  of  the 
 ones  that  are  more  natural,  more 
 widespread.  These  kind  of  mound  out. 
 These  are  kind  of  one  of  my  favorites. 
 They're  in  the  anmarie  family.  So,  but 
 instead  of  the  pink  tones  to  it,  it  has 
 the  yellow  and  a  little  bit  of  the  white 
 tones  in  it.  And  I  think  it's  just  a 
 gorgeous  little  carpet  flower.  Got  to 
 find  a  spot  in  my  garden  for  them  cuz  I 
 think  they're  gorgeous  and  they're  going 
 to  really  do  a  nice  contrast  against 
 this  rock.  So,  this  is  great.  These  are 
 Florida  friendly.  They're  non-native 
 species,  but  they  are  Florida  friendly 
 plant  because  they  do  so  well  here  in 
 Florida.  So,  if  you  guys  have  a 
 challenging  situation  like  this  and  you 
 are  at  with  end  with  whether  it's  your 
 HOA  or  maybe  it's  just  a  desire  that  you 
 have  to  have  more  of  a  sustainable 
 landscape,  something  that  can  withstand 
 things  and  be  more  on  the  water  saver 
 side  and  not  have  to  worry  about 
 fertilizing  quite  as  much,  a  little  less 
 care  in  the  garden  and  not  have  to  worry 
 about  some  of  the  other  things  that  us 
 tropical  gardeners  have  to  worry  about. 
 So,  if  you're  looking  for  a  little  bit 
 of  help  with  that,  and  if  you're  along 
 the  Florida  area  and  you're,  you  know, 
 maybe  a  little  bit  further  outside  of 
 our  installation  zone,  then  we  do  have 
 virtual  consults.  It's  a  one-on-one  with 
 me.  It's  a  1-hour  session.  It's 
 something  that  we  look  at,  walk  through 
 your  property  virtually,  and  then 
 discuss  some  options  as  I  put  things 
 down  on  on  the  computer  for  us  to  kind 
 of  visualize  and  see.  And  then  there  is 
 the  next  step  where  we  have  the  CAD  plan 
 service.  So,  if  you're  looking  for  just 
 a  master  plan,  a  full  design  service,  we 
 have  that  as  well.  That  is  also  a 
 one-on-one  with  Bryce  and  myself  and  we 
 kind  of  work  together  to  create 
 renderings  and  landscape  CAD.  So  that 
 way  that  could  be  something  that  you  can 
 hand  over  to  a  landscape  contractor  or 
 nursery  to  help  you  source  and  get  your 
 materials  and  it's  it's  pretty  much  a 
 roadmap  for  that.  So  if  you  guys  are 
 looking  for  either  one  of  those  things 
 and  kind  of  some  of  the  styles  that  you 
 see  here  on  YouTube,  if  that's  your 
 thing,  then  reach  out  to  us.  We'd  be 
 happy  to  work  with  you  and  kind  of  see 
 if  we  can  help  you  with  your  space. 
 We'll  be  sure  to  put  all  of  our  contact 
 information  down  in  the  show  notes  down 
 below.  So,  thank  you  so  much  for  joining 
 us.  If  you  guys  enjoyed  today's  video, 
 then  check  out  last  week's  video  of  our 
 backyard  garden  tour.  It  was  a  fun 
 garden  tour  of  a  lot  of  tropicals  and  it 
 was  my  personal  style,  my  personal 
 jungle  inspired  backyard.  So,  I  hope  you 
 guys  enjoy  it.  Thank  you  so  much.  I  will 
 see  you  next  week.  Take  care.

---

 Well,  hello  gardeners.  Welcome  back.  We 
 are  in  Melbourne,  Florida,  zone  10A 
 today.  This  video  is  something  I've  been 
 excited  to  do  for  you  guys  because  this 
 is  a  tiny,  tiny  backyard  that  my  clients 
 wanted  to  create  a  resort  in.  Now,  they 
 are  responsible  for  bringing  in  this 
 gorgeous,  gorgeous  pool.  But  today,  we 
 are  going  to  talk  about  how  to  maximize 
 a  small  space  by  creating  kind  of  a 
 staggered  grouping,  a  staggered 
 footprint  of  different  types  of  palms 
 and  trees  to  create  that  resort-like 
 look,  kind  of  nestling  in  this  whole 
 pool.  If  this  is  the  kind  of  look  you're 
 going  for,  you  kind  of  want  a 
 lowmaintenance  tropical  feel,  then  this 
 video  is  going  to  be  for  you.  Eugene  and 
 Nicole  contacted  us  a  few  months  ago. 
 They  wanted  to  create  a  resort  within  a 
 tiny  tiny  footprint.  I  mean,  we  are 
 talking  about  this  side  over  here  right 
 behind  me,  less  than  five  foot  deep 
 here.  This  area  from  the  pool  area  to 
 the  back  of  the  fence  is  9  and  1/2t 
 deep.  And  then,  of  course,  we  have  about 
 a  4ft  section  on  the  opposite  side.  So, 
 we're  really  just  pretty  much  looking  at 
 a  rectangular  area.  We  prepared  a 
 rendering  and  a  full  master  plan  for 
 them,  a  full  CAD  plan  for  their  backyard 
 and  their  front  yard.  And  then  they  had 
 us  come  back  and  put  in  all  the  big 
 material.  That's  a  great  way  to  do  it  if 
 you're  going  to  do  things  within  a 
 budget.  Having  a  master  plan  really  does 
 a  great  job  of  taking  out  the  guesswork. 
 Now,  a  lot  of  our  clients  will  call  us 
 and  we'll  come  in  and  do  the  whole  thing 
 from  start  to  finish  and  that's  an  ideal 
 way  to  do  it.  But  if  you're  doing  this 
 on  a  budget,  having  the  heavy  lifting 
 done  initially  is  ideal  and  then  come  in 
 with  all  the  fun  stuff.  You  know,  if  it 
 were  in  the  similar  situation,  so  even 
 if  you  didn't  have  a  pool  like  this  and 
 you  had  this  was  your  back  patio,  I  love 
 to  do  a  landscaping  that  pretty  much 
 nestles  everything  around.  also  going  to 
 talk  about  how  to  put  things  in  a  zigzag 
 pattern.  So  that  way  you  maximize  the 
 amount  of  material  that  you  can  use  in  a 
 small  space.  If  you  put  everything  in  a 
 row  and  a  row  and  a  row,  you're  really 
 limiting  off  to  what  you  can  do.  And 
 then  it  also  kind  of  has  more  of  that 
 boring  look  and  almost  like  a  hedge  and 
 a  hedge  and  a  hedge  of  material.  So  when 
 you're  working  with  smaller  spaces,  it's 
 really  important  to  zigzag  that  pattern 
 of  trees.  As  an  example,  I'm  going  to 
 show  you  this  corner  here.  I  always  like 
 to  start  from  the  back.  My  back  area  is 
 always  going  to  be  my  taller  trees.  This 
 coconut  palm  serves  as  kind  of  like  a 
 roof  line  above  this  palm  planting.  Now, 
 if  I  had  a  smaller  tree  right  here  and 
 it  was  kind  of  more  in  my  face  here, 
 that  would  not  leave  room  for  me  to 
 stagger  in  a  grouping  of  pygmyate  palms 
 and  cat  palms.  And  that's  exactly  what 
 we  were  able  to  do  here.  By  having  a 
 taller  tree  in  this  corner  area  that 
 kind  of  brings  us  up  a  canopy,  something 
 that's  going  to  grow  relatively  fast. 
 This  is  an  ideal  thing  to  do  because  we 
 have  more  like  three  foot  to  four  foot 
 of  trunk.  You're  really  not  covering 
 anything  but  the  trunk  line  and  then 
 you've  got  the  canopy  above  you  which 
 instantly  gives  you  that  at  least  that 
 first  tier  in  a  landscape.  Those  of  you 
 guys  who  are  not  able  to  have  a 
 landscaper  come  in  and  put  big  trees  or 
 you  don't  have  the  capacity  to  put  a  big 
 tree  but  you  do  like  this  type  of  look, 
 go  ahead  and  stick  your  coconut  palm  in. 
 They  grow  3  to  4  foot  a  year  so  they 
 grow  super  super  fast.  And  maybe  give 
 yourself  that  time.  Give  yourself  that 
 year  before  you  get  the  next  phase  in. 
 Instead  of  trying  to  fill  this  in  with  a 
 bunch  of  plant  material,  if  you  like 
 this  frond  on  frond  kind  of  look,  get 
 that  going.  Give  it  a  year.  Now  you  have 
 room  for  that  next  small  planting.  And 
 then  you  can  do  something  like  this 
 pymid  8  palm.  This  was  a  25gallon 
 pigment  8  palm  that  we  put  in.  They  come 
 in  about  5  to  6t  tall  when  they're  that 
 size  and  they  mature  out  between  10  and 
 12.  They  mature  out  to  what's  relatively 
 a  good  size  when  you're  looking  for 
 coverage  above  a  fence  line.  So  at  10  to 
 12t  tall,  they're  going  to  be  the 
 perfect  height  to  kind  of  camouflage 
 what's  going  on  back  behind  the  fence 
 and  leaving  you  enough  room  for  maybe 
 some  color  at  that  point  down  below.  So 
 they're  going  to  let  this  guy  get  a 
 little  bit  taller  and  then  they're  going 
 to  stick  some  blooming  power  of  some 
 color  underneath  as  he  matures  and  get 
 some  height  to  him.  So  when  you  have  a 
 rectangular  area  like  this,  the  corners 
 you're  going to  find  usually  a  little 
 bit  of  room  and  that's  the  area  that  you 
 want  to  make  sure  these  corners, 
 whatever  you  put  landscape  wise  really 
 softens  the  corner.  Whether  it's  the 
 corner  of  a  screen  roof,  corner  of  a 
 patio,  corner  of  a  pool  area,  this 
 beautiful  wall  that  we  have  here,  we 
 really  wanted  to  soften  and  let  the 
 fronds  come  up  over  top  of  it.  Because 
 we  had  the  height  of  this  coconut  palm, 
 it  allowed  us  to  put  a  pygmy  date  palm 
 and  a  pygmy  eight  palm  on  each  corner 
 and  then  fill  in  the  bottom  of  this  tree 
 with  cat  palms.  Cuz  you  guys  know  palms 
 get  9  to  10t  tall.  So  this  area  as  this 
 tree  becomes  nothing  but  trunk  and  the 
 canopy  is  well  above  us.  These  cateria 
 palms  are  going  to  fill  in  this  base. 
 Gorgeous.  And  then  these  with  this  more 
 of  a  weepy  fr  that  the  pygmy  8  palms 
 offer  are  going  to  do  a  great  job  of 
 folding  over  top  of  the  wall  corners. 
 Really  giving  you  that  almost  that 
 cascade  that  waterfall  kind  of  look  from 
 this  trunk.  And  then  of  course  you'll 
 always  have  the  dynamic  look  of  this  big 
 coconut  palm  kind  of  really  becoming  the 
 umbrella  of  the  whole  space.  This  is 
 kind  of  going  to  be  our  roof  line.  This 
 is  what  that's  going  to  do.  And  then 
 every  other  tree  along  this  side  we  did 
 the  opposite  with.  So  you'll  notice  this 
 tree  right  here,  the  triangle  palm,  the 
 traveler's  palm,  the  king  Alexander 
 palm.  These  palms  that  we  had,  we  did 
 find  a  formation  that  we  liked  on  those, 
 but  they're  all  have  one  thing  in 
 common.  They're  all  vertical  trees.  So, 
 they're  not  something  like  the  pygmyate 
 palm  that's  squat  and  and  kind  of  fat 
 and  chunky  and  weepy.  We  wanted 
 something  that's  going  to  have  a  good 
 trunk  base,  but  very,  very  flat.  So,  we 
 can  fit  many  trees  into  this  space. 
 Normally,  you  wouldn't  be  able  to  fit 
 this  many  trees  in  one  area.  Because 
 that  traveler's  palm  does  this,  which  is 
 nice  and  vertical,  nice  and  upright. 
 It's  going  to  kind  of  give  us  almost 
 like  a  wall  effect.  And  then  we're  going 
 to  have  the  silver  tone  against  that 
 wall  effect  with  a  triangle  fan  palm 
 that  does  the  same  thing.  So,  it's 
 really  going  to  be  like  wild  and  crazy 
 and  chunky  on  the  corners  and  then  very 
 vertical  everywhere  else.  I  love  love 
 love  what  King  Allaranders  do  in  a 
 garden.  I  just  think  that  they're  just 
 such  a  fantastic,  very  dynamic  frond  to 
 this  tree.  They  offer  a  very  little 
 footprint  because  the  trunks  themselves, 
 I  think  they're  substantial,  but  they're 
 not  huge.  They're  just  kind  of  a  nice 
 clean  green  trunk,  and  that's  going  to 
 offer  quite  a  bit  of  look.  In  a  lot  of 
 cases,  I'll  do  a  triple,  but  I  did  not 
 want  something  coming  over  the  front.  I 
 wanted  something  V-shaped.  I  wanted  this 
 whole  back  to  not  kind  of  encroach  on 
 the  pool  area.  I  wanted  the  corners  to 
 do  that,  but  I  wanted  the  backs  to  be 
 almost  just  dynamic,  just  very  vertical. 
 Everything  is  almost  like  a  a  tropical 
 wall  here  that  didn't  come  this  way,  but 
 the  corners  came  this  way  to  kind  of 
 soften  a  rectangular  area.  I  find  it 
 that's  the  best  way  to  do  it  when  I'm 
 working  in  my  designs  because  that's  a 
 way  to  add  curvature.  That's  a  way  to 
 add  softness  with  your  landscaping, 
 especially  when  the  biggest  thing  in 
 this  whole  area  is  the  pool.  So,  I'm 
 like,  okay,  so  we  need  to  bring  some 
 dynamics  in  here  to  really  soften  that 
 look.  Know  that  this  is  really  going  to 
 take  hold  as  these  guys  go  straight  up 
 and  these  guys  unfold  even  a  little  bit 
 more.  So,  I  think  it's  going  to  be 
 absolutely  stunning.  Right  here  to  the 
 back,  this  was  part  of  the  plan  that  we 
 proposed.  They  have  started  their 
 landscaping.  They've  already  put  in  some 
 antiloo  as  a  backdrop  and  a  little 
 clustering  of  Rojo  Congos  on  the  corner. 
 Next,  they're  going  to  bring  in  some 
 silver  odoras  and  really  kind  of  dazzle 
 this  up  with  some  pretty  colored 
 burmilads.  That's  going  to  be  a  stunner 
 in  this  area.  And  you  know,  with  a 
 landscaping  like  this,  you  kind  of  want 
 to  keep  this  base  a  little  bit  simple 
 because  you  really  do  get  a  lot  of  girth 
 with  just  the  palm  trees.  And  that's 
 kind  of  the  goal  here.  You'll  notice  we 
 have  a  gap  of  space  here.  And  I  know 
 they're  going  to  get  started  with  those 
 croins  on  this  corner  and  some  elephant 
 ears.  And  that's  just  going  to  be  a  nice 
 soft  touch  here.  But  then  we  get  back 
 over  to  this  side  here  and  we've  pretty 
 much  replicated  the  side.  I  mean,  I'm 
 sitting  here  and  I  feel  like  I'm 
 engulfed  in  this  whole  corner.  And 
 that's  the  part  of  being  in  a  resort. 
 That's  the  part  of  being  in  a  tropical 
 landscape.  And  that's  what  they  wanted. 
 They  wanted  a  tiny  resort  in  their 
 space.  And  they  started  off  with  a 
 fabulous  pool  and  then  we  got  to  come  in 
 and  really  soften  all  this  hardscape 
 with  a  lot  of  this  tropical  look.  So 
 we've  got  the  coconut  palm  as  the 
 centerpiece.  We've  wrapped  cat  palms  all 
 the  way  around.  These  are  15gallon  cat 
 palms.  And  then  on  either  side  are  two 
 pigmentate  palms.  So,  the  exact  replica, 
 the  exact  mirror  effect  of  what  we  have 
 on  that  corner,  we  recreated  on  this 
 corner.  And  you  notice  that  as  far  as 
 the  landscaping  goes,  if  you're  looking 
 kind  of  how  I'm  looking  down  this  way, 
 you'll  see  that  it's  the  corners  that 
 encroach  in  the  backside.  Everything, 
 even  the  plant  material,  stays  more 
 vertical,  more  compact.  And  I  think  that 
 that's  going  to  give  them  kind  of  really 
 long-term  success.  As  this  planting  is  a 
 month  old,  when  it's  10  years  old,  it's 
 just  going  to  be  stunning.  The  only 
 difference  is  when  it's  10  years  old, 
 you'll  have  more  trunk  line.  So  you  can 
 decide  at  that  point  you'll  have  a 
 little  bit  more  shade  so  they  can  put  in 
 some  of  those  key  features  trees  that 
 they  want  that  needed  a  little  bit  of 
 protection  from  some  of  this  aggressive 
 sun  they've  got  going  on  back  here.  This 
 is  our  ending  points  at  the  edges  of  the 
 this  narrow  space  of  4t.  I  think  it's  4 
 and  1/2t  is  what  we  had  to  work  with 
 here.  We  chose  a  kiopsis  palm  to  fit  in 
 this  particular  spot  because  its  trunk 
 is  going  to  be  so  beautiful.  Why  not 
 have  it  forefront  in  the  landscape?  So, 
 this  trunk  is  going  to  get  super  sized 
 and  then  this  tree  stays  so  nice  and 
 vertical  and  it  has  such  a  unique  frond, 
 especially  when  you're  comparing  it  to 
 the  softness  of  the  other  fronds.  That 
 contrast  is  super  important  when  you 
 only  have  the  option  of  using  one  tree. 
 One  tree  that  has  a  completely  different 
 frond  and  then  mix  it  with  the  trees 
 that  have  completely  different  fronds 
 and  then  that  contrast  makes  it  look 
 like  you  have  just  multiple  things  going 
 on  when  you're  really  only  maybe  looking 
 at  three  or  four  trees.  So,  right  next 
 to  the  Kentopsis  there,  we  have  a  King 
 Kong  fishtail  palm,  which  is  such  an 
 unusual  tree.  I  think  that's  going  to  be 
 a  fun,  interesting  tree  as  it  comes  in. 
 And  then  we  mimicked  it.  Everything's 
 squared  off.  And  you  kind  of  want  to  do 
 a  rinse  and  repeat.  This  is  a  very 
 contemporary  pattern  that  we're  trying 
 to  soften  with  a  tropical  landscape.  But 
 we're  going  to  follow  the  rules  by 
 making  sure  that  we  do  kind  of 
 complement  the  sides  by  having  some 
 symmetry  here,  having  some  symmetry  on 
 the  corners,  and  then  making  more  of  a 
 dynamic  centerpiece  area  by  kind  of 
 creating  the  middle  as  its  very  own 
 space  and  kind  of  using  the  sides  to 
 frame.  I  find  that  seems  to  be  the  best 
 thing  to  do  when  you  have  a  small  space 
 to  work  with.  It  takes  away  that  feel  of 
 things  being  too  cluttered  and  it  kind 
 of  makes  it  more  streamlined.  Now,  I 
 know  if  you  guys  seen  my  videos,  you 
 know  that  I  love  the  clustered  fishtail 
 palms  for  privacy.  This  was  the  client's 
 idea.  I  think  it  was  Universal  Studios 
 he  told  me  that  he  saw  these  in  and  they 
 were  stunners  in  the  garden  there.  And 
 so  he's  like,  I  just  love  this  big  giant 
 leaf.  And  I  can  see  why  because  I've 
 become  a  fan  myself  now.  I  love  this 
 kind  of  cascading  look  when  there's 
 multiple  ones  with  the  big  fishtail 
 palms,  but  seeing  them  in  a  tree  form,  I 
 don't  know.  I  think  I  might  have  to 
 experiment  with  it  because  I  am  really 
 liking  this  kind  of  graceful  just  kind 
 of  whimsy  type  of  look.  I  mean,  I  feel 
 like  I  could  just  stand  right  under  it. 
 is  this  is  like  the  perfect  thing  for 
 pictures  as  this  really  unfolds. 
 Fishtail  palms  are  one  of  my  favorites 
 and  now  I  think  King  Kongs.  I'm  going  to 
 keep  a  close  eye  on  how  these  do  in  this 
 environment  and  then  maybe  start  to  use 
 them  in  other  gardens.  Then  we  have 
 another  Kentopsis.  Eugene  and  Nikki  have 
 already  started  to  put  in  some  plants. 
 So  they've  gotten  perilis  vermilads  per 
 the  plan  that  we  designed  for  them. 
 They're  going  to  do  a  little  bit  of 
 boulders  and  then  bring  in  a  little  bit 
 of  stone  as  they  can  to  make  this  little 
 spot  a  little  interesting  right  here. 
 and  then  come  in  with  some  small 
 plantings  because  again  we're  only  4  and 
 1/2t  of  space  to  work  with  here.  This 
 garden  really  really  came  together  for 
 the  space  that  we  had  to  work  with.  And 
 I  wanted  you  to  see  the  possibilities 
 what  you  can  create  in  such  a  small 
 space  because  I  know  a  lot  of  us  think 
 that  gosh  if  I  had  that  much  room  I  can 
 create  that  kind  of  garden  too  but  you 
 do  not  need  much  room  to  really  fit  in  a 
 good  amount  of  tree  material.  This  looks 
 great  now,  but  in  five,  six  years,  in  10 
 years,  it's  really  going  to  come 
 together,  really  give  them  that  dynamic 
 tropical  look.  When  you  open  that  back 
 gate,  when  you  come  through  this  back 
 area,  they're  going  to  see  these 
 different  varieties  of  flat  trees  mixed 
 in  with  these  corner  trees  come 
 together,  and  it  is  going  to  feel  like 
 the  garden  of  their  dreams.  And  I  cannot 
 wait.  I'm  hoping  they'll  invite  us  back 
 to  do  a  video  on  that  because  I  think 
 that  would  just  be  so  stunning.  I  hope 
 you  got  a  little  bit  information  about 
 some  of  these  plants  and  trees.  As  you 
 guys  know,  we  have  a  book  coming  out 
 very,  very  soon.  It  is  finished.  It's  50 
 of  the  heartiest  plants  and  trees  in 
 South  Florida.  It  is  my  favorite 
 material  that  I  love  to  use  that  I've 
 used  for  25  plus  years  in  the  landscapes 
 for  my  garden  and  many,  many,  many  other 
 gardens  throughout  our  areas  of  Florida. 
 We're  super  proud  of  it.  As  soon  as  it's 
 ready,  it'll  be  in  the  show  notes  of  our 
 latest  video.  So,  please  check  it  out. 
 It'll  be  on  Amazon.  We're  very,  very 
 thrilled  about  it.  It  goes  into  not  only 
 depths  of  each  and  every  one  of  those 
 plants,  but  it  also  talks  about 
 companion  plants,  what  they  like,  areas 
 of  the  garden  they  like  to  be  in,  and 
 kind  of  just  how  to  work  them  into  a 
 landscaping.  So,  we  wanted  each  plant 
 and  tree  to  have  enough  information 
 there.  That  way,  you  guys  can  see  if 
 this  is  going  to  be  something  that's 
 going  to  fit  for  your  space.  So,  this  is 
 going  to  be  something  that  when  once 
 we're  done  talking  about  and  explaining 
 about  what  it  likes,  who  it  likes  to  be 
 paired  with,  the  type  of  environment 
 that  it  likes  to  be  in  to  know  if  it's 
 going  to  be  something,  yes,  that  is  my 
 go-to  plant  for  this  particular  location 
 in  my  garden  or  maybe  skip  to  the  next 
 page  and  find  another  plant.  We  enjoy 
 doing  these  videos.  A  lot  of  these 
 projects  are  projects  that  we've  either 
 designed,  installed,  or  did 
 consultations  for.  So,  that  is  all 
 something  that  we  do.  if  that's  a 
 service  that  you're  looking  for.  We  do 
 landscape  installation  through  our  local 
 areas  of  along  the  Treasure  and  Space 
 Coast.  And  then  of  course  we  do 
 landscape  designs  for  those  of  you  guys 
 outside  that  area  throughout  Florida. 
 And  then  for  virtual  landscape  design 
 consultations,  we  also  offer  that 
 service.  Let  us  know.  We'll  have  all  of 
 our  contact  information  down  below  and 
 we  would  love  to  hear  from  you  guys. 
 Thank  you  so  much  for  joining  me  this 
 Saturday  and  I  will  see  you  next  week. 
 Check  out  last  week's  video  of  some 
 great  tropicals  that  were  in  my  very  own 
 backyard.

---

 [Music] 
 Well,  hello  gardeners.  Welcome  back.  So, 
 we  are in  my  backyard  yet  again,  Vero 
 Beach,  Florida,  zone  10A.  And  if  you 
 guys  were  around  a  couple  weekends  ago, 
 we  did  a  backyard  tour  of  this  side  of 
 my  garden  that  we're  going  to  do  a  part 
 two  for  the  other  side  of  the  walkway 
 because  if  you  guys  are  new  to  Florida 
 and  you're  thinking  of  kind  of 
 recreating  a  similar  type  of  effect  to 
 what  I  have  going  on  back  here,  I  wanted 
 you  to  have  enough  information  to  where 
 you  can  say,  "Oh,  yes,  that's  going  to 
 work  in  my  space."  Whether  it  gets  sun, 
 little  sun,  whether  it  needs  a  good 
 amount  of  water,  you  can  take  it  from  a 
 landscape  designer.  I've  been  doing  this 
 for  over  25  years.  This  is  my  space. 
 This  is  my  jam.  This  is  my  personal 
 garden.  I  know  it  might  not  appeal  to 
 everybody,  but  I  like  the  tropical 
 style.  I  like  that  jungle  style.  I  like 
 being  involved  in  almost  like  a 
 resort-like  garden,  even  though  I  live 
 on  a  teeny  tiny  slice  of  land  here  in 
 Vero  Beach,  Florida.  So,  I've  tried  to 
 make  my  space  feel  more  like  a  resort. 
 This  is  a  very  lowmaintenance  section  of 
 my  garden.  So,  come  on,  you  guys.  Let's 
 jump  right  in.  All right,  you  guys.  So, 
 right  where  we  left  off,  this  is  the 
 rear  corner  of  my  property.  This  is  my 
 whole  backyard  space,  you  guys.  I  have 
 like  a  drainage  easement  down  the  middle 
 of  my  backyard  space  and  then  it's 
 pretty  much  plants  on  both  sides  of  that 
 drainage  easement.  So,  Bryce,  pan  over  a 
 little  bit  to  my  neighbor's  yard.  This 
 is  my  neighbor  Don's  yard.  She  is  the 
 sweetest  neighbor  I  have.  I  just 
 absolutely  love  her.  She's  kept  her  yard 
 pretty  natural,  and  that's  pretty  much 
 what  my  garden  looked  like  when  I  first 
 moved  in.  So,  right  here  on  the  very 
 corner,  we  have  the  red  cone  ginger. 
 This  is  the  red  variety.  Even  though  it 
 has  more  of  a  a  pink  tone  to  it,  it  is  a 
 beautiful  striking  red  as  it  matures. 
 You  can  kind  of  see  it  and  they  really 
 open  up  to  a  nice  tall  bloom.  Now,  these 
 blooms  last  for  months  and  months.  So, 
 it  is  really  striking  when  the  whole 
 thing  really  starts  to  come  together. 
 Blooms  all  summer  long.  Unfortunately, 
 this  particular  variety  really  does  need 
 to  be  in  warm  climate.  And  once  it  hits 
 that  30  32  range,  really  does  not  like 
 it.  you're  going  to  have  to  cut  it  back 
 and  then  let  it  flush  back  out.  You  want 
 to  do  filtered  light  when  it's  in  a  pot 
 because  it  can't  take  too  much  of  that 
 harsh  rays  cuz  it  can  really  burn.  Make 
 sure  it  gets  good  water  and  then  it  will 
 kind  of  flush  out  and  be  gorgeous  and 
 beautiful  and  then  during  those  cool 
 nights  that  you  have,  pop  it  into  the 
 garage  and,  you  know,  put  it  into  safety 
 and  then,  you  know,  pop  it  back  out 
 through  the  rest  of  the  year  and  it  does 
 fabulous.  So,  if  you  guys  have  a  cluster 
 in  the  garden,  especially  around  a 
 corner  or  maybe  a  backdrop  around  behind 
 a  pool  area  or  a  water  feature,  red  cone 
 ginger  is  ideal.  I  love  it  when  it's  hot 
 pink  and  really  goes  to  town  and  fills 
 in  this  whole  corner  area.  So,  right 
 down  here,  I  have  a  little  collection  of 
 some  Tennessee  boulders.  I  absolutely 
 love  putting  them  on  corner  areas, 
 especially  when  I'm  trying  to  soften 
 something.  So,  it  also  disguises  the 
 connection  of  two  edgings.  So  I  have  but 
 edging  right  along  this  edge  and  then  I 
 have  the  aluminum  alloy  edging  right 
 across  this  edge.  Edging  is  important  on 
 my  garden  because  both  sides  slant 
 pretty  aggressively  and  I  really  want  a 
 nice  tight  path.  I  want  a  tight  area  of 
 mulch  and  plantings  then  a  tight  area  of 
 stone  and  edging  does  a  good  job  of 
 controlling  those  two  things.  We  kind  of 
 have  a  little  forefront  with  the 
 boulders  here.  Right  where  I'm  standing 
 is  a  great  look  for  a  really  cool  either 
 statue  or  a  pot  with  something  popping 
 out  of  the  middle  of  it  to  kind  of  give 
 us  a  secondary  tier.  That's  a  perfect 
 way  to  offer  some  different  kind  of 
 layering  in  the  garden  and  making  it 
 interesting  and  then  also  soften  the  two 
 connections  of  the  different  types  of 
 edging  for  this  particular  space.  All 
 right  guys,  so  coming  around  the  corner 
 is  Song  of  India.  Now  we  just  have  a 
 little  clustering.  There's  not  much 
 going  on.  There  are  exactly  three  song 
 of  India  in  this  little  grouping  and 
 that's  all  it  takes.  And  what  I  wanted 
 was  we  have  the  darkness  of  the  ginger. 
 We  have  the  darkness  of  the  ic  tee 
 croins  as  a  backdrop.  So  having 
 something  with  a  little  bit  of 
 brightness  in  a  dark  spot  is  always  my 
 goal.  So  I'm  always  looking  for  light 
 and  dark  combinations  in  the  garden  and 
 song  of  India  do  that.  They  have  that 
 beautiful  yellow  and  green  tone  and  then 
 when  it  gets  more  shade  it's  more  of  a 
 white  and  green  kind  of  tone.  So  that 
 combination  really  really  speaks  to  me. 
 But  you  can  keep  them  a  bush  forever. 
 They  do  not  need  to  be  that  tall.  You 
 can  keep  them  chunky.  You  can  keep  them 
 full.  Every  time  you  trim  one  of  these 
 individual  limbs,  it  produces  two  new 
 heads.  And  I'm  going  to  continue  to  do 
 that.  So,  that's  an  easy  way  to  keep 
 this  a  long-term  colorful  bush.  If  I 
 wanted  one  to  kind  of  come  right  through 
 here  and  kind  of  be  nice  and  tall  in  the 
 midst  of  all  of  these  guys,  that's  an 
 absolute  possibility.  You  could  totally 
 train  it  to  be  a  tree  as  a  centerpiece 
 in  that  group.  And  it's  kind  of  like  a 
 wonky  kind  of  cousin  it  type  of  tree, 
 which  I  love.  They  can  handle  full  sun. 
 They  can  handle  filtered  light.  They  can 
 handle  almost  all  shades.  So,  a  plant 
 that's  that  versatile,  I  find  a  lot  of 
 uses  for  it  in  the  garden.  And  I  think 
 it  does  a  great  job  of  kind  of  capturing 
 kind  of  taking  your  eye  and  zooming 
 right  in  that  particular  spot.  It  can  be 
 kept  like  this  forever  if  that's  your 
 choice.  So,  directly  behind  the  song  of 
 India  are  a  little  clustering  of  four  of 
 the  icon  croins.  Now,  these  icone 
 croins,  they're  a  little  bit  darker  than 
 they  are  in  the  sunny  areas.  This  is  a 
 little  bit  of  a  filtered  light,  more  of 
 a  shaded  spot,  especially  now  that  this 
 tree  has  really  come  into  this  area  and 
 the  gingers  are  kind  of  unfolding  over 
 top  of  it.  This  spot  gets  a  little  bit 
 more  shade  and  then  it  allows  my  icon 
 croins  to  have  a  little  bit  of  a  deeper 
 tone.  Icone  croins  in  general  are  a 
 chunkier  croin.  They're  going  to  really 
 kind  of  stay  easy  care,  lowmaintenance. 
 I  haven't  trimmed  these  guys  since  I  put 
 them  in  about  8  months  ago.  They  can 
 really  really  live  in  a  space  for  a  long 
 period  of  time  and  stay  chunky  and  more 
 compact.  Now,  I'll  get  Bryce  to  pop  up  a 
 picture  because  I  really  do  want  you  to 
 have  a  good  representation  of  what  those 
 look  like  more  in  the  sun.  Early  morning 
 sun  to  midday  sun,  they  have  more  of 
 those  pink  tones,  more  vibrant 
 colorations.  This  is  my  weight.  This  is 
 my  thickness  here.  But  the  focal  point 
 in  my  garden  is  the  triple  bottle  palm. 
 You  guys  know  how  much  I  love  the  bottle 
 palms.  And  if  you  love  a  single,  you're 
 going  to  love  a  triple.  This  is  going to 
 be  an  absolute  stunner.  I  have  one  in  my 
 front  yard  that  I'm  in  love  with.  This 
 one  is  fairly  young.  It's  been  in  the 
 garden  for  about  a  year.  Kind  of 
 starting  to  open  up.  They're  more 
 compact  when  they're  newly  planted.  As 
 they  grow  and  search  for  the  sun,  they 
 really  widen  out.  So,  they  become  a  cool 
 sculpture  in  the  garden.  They  have  that 
 big  bulbous  base.  If  they're  fairly 
 young  tree,  they  don't  want  to  be  in  the 
 full  sun.  They  like  filtered  light 
 protection.  They  can  handle  all  morning 
 sun  that  you  want,  but  towards  that 
 afternoon  sun,  they  can  really  brown  out 
 on  you.  If  you  have  an  area  that  has 
 maybe  some  canopy  coverage  where  you 
 have  a  palm  tree  over  top  of  it  or  you 
 have  an  oak  tree  over  top  of  it, 
 anything  like  that,  it  is  a  perfect 
 place  to  kind  of  pop  a  bottle  palm 
 underneath  of  there.  Now,  what's  great 
 about  the  bottle  palm  is  it  does  not  get 
 enormous.  So,  a  bottle  palm  on  average 
 is  going  to  get  around  14t  tall  and  then 
 stop  growing.  So,  there's  not  many 
 Florida  trees  that  are  going  to  offer 
 you  that  kind  of  look,  especially  with  a 
 clean,  cool  trunk  as  the  bottle  palm. 
 And  I've  got  a  couple  singles  right 
 behind  me  that  have  been  full  grown  for 
 a  good  10  years.  And  that  is  as  a  big  as 
 they're  going  to  get.  And  I  just  think 
 they're  absolute  stunners  in  the  garden 
 with  this  big  bulbous  base.  I  wrap 
 myself  around  it.  It  is  just  huge.  This 
 tree  has  been  like  this  forever.  They're 
 a  fabulous,  fabulous  tree  to  work  with 
 in  the  garden.  Great  understory  tree 
 amongst  all  of  the  other  big  canopy 
 trees.  Deserves  its  place  in  the  garden, 
 especially  a  Florida  garden.  Oh,  you 
 guys,  I  just  want  to  pop  in  here  real 
 quick.  For  those  of  you  guys  who  have 
 put  in  comment  after  comment  about  our 
 book,  thank  you  so  much  for  asking  about 
 the  book  that  we've  been  talking  about 
 for  I  don't  know,  seven  or  eight  months 
 now,  maybe  a  year  now.  We  have  been 
 editing,  we  have  finished  the  book.  I  am 
 so  thrilled  that  the  book  is  at  the 
 final  edit  count  now.  We  are  waiting  for 
 Amazon  to  take  up  that  next  step  and 
 into  printing.  And  we  don't  quite  know 
 how  long  that's  going  to  take,  but  it 
 should  be  very  soon.  And  I  want  to  thank 
 you  guys  for  following  up  and  asking 
 about  it  because  we  have  worked 
 diligently  on  this  book  and  we  wanted  it 
 to  be  something  that  we  are  super  proud 
 of.  So  Bryce  and  I  have  spent  countless 
 hours  making  sure  that  this  book  is 
 exactly  what  we  wanted  before  it  left 
 the  shelves.  So  it  gave  you  guys  as  much 
 information  as  absolutely  possible  on 
 these  Florida  plants  and  trees  that  we 
 love  and  the  best  way  to  use  them.  So 
 the  book  is  coming  out.  I  hope  I  hope 
 you  like  it.  I  cannot  wait  to  hear  from 
 you  guys  on  it. 
 So  let's  get  back  to  the  video.  So 
 directly  behind  the  triple  bottle  palm 
 are  three  individual  plants.  The  one  to 
 the  far  left  is  the  camo  defambakia  or 
 also  called  dumcane  plant.  That  camo  is 
 getting  more  sun  than  the  one  on  the 
 left.  You  can  really  tell  the  difference 
 in  what  they're  offering.  But  I  still 
 love  them  as  a  backdrop  plant.  They're 
 going  to  get  some  size  to  them.  About 
 five  or  six  foot  tall.  I  can  trim  them. 
 I  can  keep  them  a  little  bit  lower  than 
 that.  But  I  kind  of  want  them  to  really 
 create  a  kind  of  a  a  soft  buffering 
 along  my  black  fence  there.  The  aglion 
 have  a  tendency  to  get  wider  and 
 chunkier.  And  so  that's  why  it's  the 
 centerpiece  in  that  spot.  It's  really 
 going  to  open  up  and  kind  of  give  us  a 
 bright  spot.  Anything  to  the  back  of  a 
 garden,  I  love  sticking  things  in  that 
 have  a  lot  of  light  coloring  to  them 
 that  just  draws  your  eye  and  it  makes 
 the  bed  look  like  it  has  more  depth.  So 
 down  below  you  guys,  we  have  three  dwarf 
 exoras  because  sometimes  three  is  all  it 
 takes.  Those  guys  are  doing  super  well. 
 I  didn't  want  something  that  was  going 
 to  compete  or  overgrow  the  bottle  palm. 
 And  dwarf  exoras  do  a  great  job  of 
 staying  compact  and  small  with  little 
 leaves.  Now  this  area  only  gets  morning 
 sun.  So  right  now  we  don't  have  a  lot  of 
 blooms  on  them,  but  in  average  I  have 
 five  to  six  blooms  during  the  summer 
 months.  This  is  a  full  sun  plant.  It  can 
 handle  filtered  light,  can  handle 
 morning  sun.  This  area  only  gets  early 
 morning  sun  and  then  it  kind  of  stops 
 from  there.  So  for  me,  what  was  really 
 important  was  to  not  have  too  much 
 maintenance  around  the  base  of  this  tree 
 because  I  do  love  to  see  the  base  of 
 this  tree,  especially  as  it  gets  a 
 little  bit  larger.  When  I  start  taking 
 off  these  sheds  here  because  once  that 
 comes  off,  then  you  really  see  the 
 bulbous  base.  It's  just  still  a  little 
 young  of  a  tree.  So,  I  definitely  want 
 to  keep  a  little  skirt  planting  here 
 that  was  just  not  too  much  work  or  not 
 too  cluttered  in  this  particular  spot 
 because  it's  generally  a  small  spot.  All 
 right,  so  as  we  move  just  past  that 
 section,  this  is  one  of  my  favorite 
 little  areas.  You  know,  this  was  kind  of 
 a  nice  surprise  and  why  I  love  love  love 
 pots  in  the  garden.  When  you  have  spots 
 in  your  garden,  wait  for  that  perfect 
 pot  that  you  find  on  marketplace  or  a 
 pottery  shop  because  I  love  this  pot  in 
 the  garden.  It's  the  perfect  size.  I 
 waited  until  I  found  this  dune  palm  that 
 I  love  in  the  garden.  I  wanted  something 
 that  I  knew  would  either  be  vertical, 
 like  a  cleared  trunk  with  a  canopy  to 
 it,  or  something  vertical  like  a 
 sculpture  like  this  dune  palm.  And  I 
 think  that  this  dune  palm  really  did  the 
 trick.  I  think  that  was  the  perfect  fit 
 for  this  spot.  What  I  have  is  excellence 
 croins  that  wrap  around  it.  These  croins 
 are  very  old.  They're  a  good  12  years 
 old.  I  wanted  something  here  where  I  can 
 let  these  guys  get  some  size,  but  I 
 needed  something  to  pop  out  of  the 
 middle  of  it  without  it  getting  too  too 
 tall.  So,  when  you  have  a  pot,  you  can 
 really  control  what  you  want  to  use  in 
 it.  So,  a  dune  palm  is  an  ideal  plant  to 
 use  because  it  needs  little  water. 
 Overall,  tough  when  it  comes  to  pests 
 and  and  other  issues,  and  it's  kind  of 
 up  and  out  of  the  way.  Anytime  I  do  need 
 to  trim  a  frond,  it's  like  right  in  my 
 face,  so  it's  super  easy  to  get  to.  It's 
 become  a  perfect  lowmaintenance  feature. 
 It's  going  to  get  about  2  foot  taller 
 than  it  currently  is.  And  that's  it. 
 It's  not  going  to  outgrow  the  spot 
 forever  and  ever  and  ever.  And  it's 
 going  to  become  a  big  kind  of  crown  in 
 this  particular  spot.  Pop  to  boulder 
 right  in  front  of  it.  And  then  voila,  we 
 have  a  little  feature  grouping  here.  I 
 have  some  dreads  croins  down  below.  It 
 is  a  kind  of  curly  leafed  kind  of  crazy 
 croten.  I've  had  them  for  about  a  year 
 now  and  I  love  them  in  down  south 
 gardens,  but  I've  had  pest  problems  with 
 them.  I've  had  issues  with  them  in  my 
 garden  and  I'm  not  super  happy  with  them 
 in  my  particular  space.  So,  I'm  going  to 
 give  them  another  6  months.  If  they're 
 not  going  to  work  in  the  garden  and 
 they're  just  really  not  going  to  really 
 pop  out  and  give  me  some  of  that  good 
 color  that  I  was  really  hoping  from 
 them,  I  might  switch  them  out  to 
 something  else  that  kind  of  fits  this 
 spot  a  little  bit  better.  That  is  my 
 honest  review  on  these  particular 
 croins.  A  lot  of  my  garden  is  kind  of  in 
 the  filtered  light,  more  protected  with 
 the  palm  trees.  This  particular  spot 
 right  here  is  full  full  sun.  Now,  when 
 you  have  that  going  on  in  your  space  and 
 you're  not  able  to  remodify  all  your 
 irrigation  to  fit  sun,  no  sun,  the  best 
 thing  that  you  can  do  is  really  modify 
 your  plants  and  trees  to  fit  the 
 irrigation  that  you  currently  have. 
 Irrigation  is  a  big  part  of  keeping  your 
 plants  super  happy  and  healthy.  But  I 
 can't  run  separate  zones  for  this 
 section  versus  that  section.  So  I  went 
 with  more  of  a  drought  tolerant  plant 
 material  in  this  particular  spot.  These 
 are  some  tried  andrue  tough  plants  that 
 really  work  in  this  kind  of  environment. 
 So  right  here,  right  off  the  bat,  this 
 is  a  dwarf  jasmine  tree.  Just  look  at 
 the  movement  in  this  particular  tree. 
 She  blooms  a  beautiful  white  flower  that 
 offers  a  lovely  fragrance.  Hence  why  I 
 have  her  right  here  on  the  corner  near 
 my  seating  section.  Anytime  I  have  a 
 seating  section  that  I  spend  time  in,  I 
 do  try  to  stick  something  in  with  some 
 fragrance.  My  back  arbor  has  a 
 variegated  confederate  jasmine  that  just 
 lights  up  the  backyard  with  fragrance 
 because  it  blooms  all  summer  long.  I 
 just  get  that  soft,  subtle  fragrance.  It 
 has  like  a  citrusy  smell  to  it.  And  I 
 just  love  how  plants  and  trees  will  do 
 that  to  you.  Just  extra  bonus  in  life.  I 
 wanted  a  little  bit  of  a  raised  area 
 here,  a  little  bit  of  impact  here.  So, 
 we  have  the  Tennessee  boulders  that  I've 
 used  as  an  edging  along  this  area.  And 
 it  wasn't  just  for  the  purpose  of  the 
 beauty  of  this  edging.  I  needed  this 
 landscaping  to  not  sit  low  at  all 
 because  when  you  have  drought  tolerant 
 plants,  what  do  you  need  most?  You  need 
 drainage  in  a  garden.  So,  everything 
 here  is  planted  about  5  in  above  grade. 
 So,  it's  slightly  birmed  up  along  this 
 area.  So,  that  way  I  don't  have  any 
 trouble  with  this  being  underwater 
 during  our  heavy  storm.  So  this  is  a 
 subtle  retaining  wall.  And  I  think  that 
 that  just  kind  of  adds  more  charm  and 
 more  interest  to  the  garden.  Right  in 
 the  center  I  have  a  false  agave.  This  is 
 the  dark  green  variety  with  the  yellow 
 center  or  sometimes  of  the  year  it's 
 more  of  a  white  center.  It's  going  to  be 
 a  gorgeous  tall  feature.  Now  this  is  the 
 taller  of  the  fals  agave.  I  wanted 
 something  that's  going  to  get  about  3 
 foot  taller  than  what  it  currently  is. 
 And  it's  really  going  to  do  that  and 
 become  that  centerpiece  coming  over  top 
 of  the  deck.  Directly  behind  it  is  my 
 foxtail  ferns.  and  I  just  have  a  curved 
 swath  of  foxtail  ferns.  When  you  have 
 something  that's  more  of  a  a  sharp  tone, 
 something  more  of  like  the  bold  and  and 
 crazy.  Having  something  like  this  that's 
 soft  and  just  a  perfect  kind  of  bedding 
 plant,  it  creates  such  a  great  contrast. 
 It  just  makes  you  want  to  bend  over  and 
 touch  it  just  like  this.  So,  I  love 
 using  these  guys  for  that.  Now,  they're 
 fairly  young.  This  is  their  first  year 
 in  the  garden,  but  I'll  get  Bryce  to 
 slide  in  a  um  picture  of  what  they  look 
 like  after  a  few  trimming  cycles.  When 
 you  trim  these  guys,  you  pretty  much 
 handle  them  just  kind  of  like  a  a 
 ponytail  here  and  you  trim  all  along  the 
 bottom  of  it.  So  that  way  you  keep  that 
 vertical  aspect  after  a  good  year.  They 
 really  do  show  off  almost  that  vertical 
 and  chunky  look  of  them.  Kind  of  gives 
 you  an  architectural  detail  in  the 
 garden.  I  just  I  love  the  way  that 
 looks.  These  three  here  are  flame  agave. 
 This  here  is  a  foxtail  agave.  No  thorns 
 to  it.  Very  soft.  Such  a  beautiful 
 plant.  This  one  has  a  little  bit  of 
 thorns  right  along  this  edge  here.  Not 
 crazy,  not  terrible.  They  still  kind  of 
 give  you  that  succulent  kind  of  look. 
 Gorgeous  together  as  a  grouping.  They 
 really  kind  of  pop  out  and  lean  against 
 each  other  and  really  give  you  that  kind 
 of  tropical  lily  pad  kind  of  leaf.  And  I 
 love  the  way  they  look  as  a  backdrop. 
 And  through  the  cracks,  I  often  use 
 pelane  or  perchilaka.  That's  a  great 
 summer  annual.  These  all  cut  back. 
 They'll  flush  back  out  in  the  spring, 
 but  they're  a  gorgeous  little  plant  that 
 blooms  consistently  other  than  when  I 
 seem  to  be  filming  because  they're  never 
 in  bloom,  but  they  do  bloom.  A  gorgeous 
 pink  vibrant  pink pink  flower.  I  know 
 it's  kind  of  hard  to  see  here.  I'll  try 
 to  get  Bryce  to  pop  in  a  picture  of  what 
 they  look  like  when  they're  in  full 
 bloom.  Down  below,  I  have  mam  croins. 
 So,  I  have  three  on  this  side  wrapping 
 around  the  front  of  this  banana  leaf 
 croin.  I  love  the  mammy  croins.  there. 
 Make  like  a  fireball  display.  Really, 
 really  bright  and  contrasting  color. 
 Super  easy  to  stay  this  size.  This  is 
 about  the  height  that  I  want  to  let  them 
 get.  Maybe  a  tad  bit  taller,  but  then 
 they  can  be  that  way  forever,  you  guys. 
 You  can  keep  them  chunky.  You  can  keep 
 them  small  and  they'll  widen  out  at  the 
 base.  They  can  take  the  heat  of  full  sun 
 or  bounce  back  heat  from  a  walkway  or  a 
 pool  deck.  They'll  handle  that  like  a 
 champ.  and  they'll  give  you  that  giant 
 fireball  kind  of  red  look  to  it  and 
 really  give  you  a  good  bit  of 
 concealment  from,  you  know,  whatever 
 you're  trying  to  hide  behind  it.  So, 
 that's  kind  of  how  I  use  mammy  croins. 
 I'll  cluster  them  in  a  big  grouping  to 
 the  front  of  something  like  this. 
 Something  that  really  does  have  a  lot  of 
 stem  work  at  the  bottom  where  I  love 
 this  top  beauty  but  not  so  much  at  the 
 base.  And  that's  exactly  what  they're 
 doing  for  my  girls  here.  I  have  two 
 banana  leaf  croins.  I  brought  these  guys 
 in  at  15gallon  size.  They  are  one  of  my 
 favorite  croins  and  I  don't  get  to  use 
 them  very  often  and  I'll  tell  you  why. 
 They're  like  a  terrible  adolescence. 
 They  have  a  bunch  of  attitude  right  in 
 the  beginning.  They  might  drop  their 
 leaves.  They  might  not  really  flush  out 
 for  a  good  four  to  five  months,  maybe 
 even  6  months  because  this  one  took  a 
 while  and  then  all  of  a  sudden  they  take 
 hold  and  then  they're  beautiful  non-stop 
 from  there.  Like  they  just  flush  out  and 
 then  they  just  have  all  of  this  gorgeous 
 foliage  to  it.  I  hope  it  comes  across  on 
 camera,  but  I  see  this  through  almost 
 every  back  window  of  my  house.  It's 
 absolutely  a  stunner  in  my  space.  And 
 then  when  I  come  out  to  walk  along  this 
 walkway  path,  I  see  them  against  these 
 mammy  croins  and  just  makes  me  smile 
 because  talk  about  your  dark  tones  mixed 
 with  your  light  tones.  These  can  handle 
 two  day  a  week  watering  cycles,  so  they 
 do  not  need  tons  of  water.  This  is  right 
 in  my  particular  spot  of  my  drought 
 tolerant  environment.  Now,  if  you  give 
 them  a  little  bit  more  water,  they  might 
 not  stress  as  much  as  mine  did.  So,  next 
 is  the  Madagascar  palm.  There's  a  love 
 and  hate  relationship  on  YouTube  with 
 this  particular  palm.  I  love  it.  I  know 
 that  there's  a  lot  of  drama  with  all 
 these  spikes.  I  know  it  doesn't  look 
 super  friendly,  but  to  me,  I  like  unique 
 things.  I  like  sculptures  in  the  garden, 
 and  that's  what  this  palm  does  for  me. 
 And  then  it  offers  these  beautiful 
 blooms  after  all  of  the  harshness  of 
 these  thorns.  You're  thinking,  what's  it 
 going  to  do?  And  then  it  pops  out  all 
 summer  long.  Pretty  much  deciduous,  very 
 similar  to  like  the  plumeriia  tree  where 
 a  lot  of  those  leaves  will  fall  and  then 
 all  summer  long.  About  10  months  out  of 
 the  year  here  in  Florida,  we  will  have 
 leaf  cover  and  we  will  have  beautiful 
 blooms.  During  the  rest  of  the  year, 
 we're  going  to  have  a  lot  less  leaves 
 and  then  obviously  no  blooms,  but  we 
 will  have  still  the  sculpture  in  the 
 garden.  And  that's  kind  of  what  I 
 wanted.  I  love  these  octopus  arms  and 
 then  it  offers  those  little  palm  heads 
 to  them  cuz  this  is  not  actually  a  palm 
 tree.  You  know,  I  think  it  deserves  a 
 spot  in  a  tropical  garden.  Even  as  a 
 landscape  designer,  I  try  never  to  put 
 too  many  limitations.  Obviously,  I  want 
 you  guys  to  have  a  symmetrical  planting 
 and  things  to  make  sense,  but  if  there 
 is  something  that  calls  to  my  clients,  I 
 I  fit  that  in  because  that's  what  it 
 means  to  have  your  own  space.  When  I 
 walk  through  here  and  I  see  those  crazy 
 blooms  and  it's  absolutely  gorgeous  and 
 everybody's  like,  "Oh  my  god,  what  is 
 that?"  that  I  know  I  put  the  right  tree 
 in  the  right  spot.  She  will  continue  to 
 grow.  If  you  chop  off  a  head,  she  may 
 produce  another  head  just  right  next  to 
 it.  I'm  so  glad  to  have  my  very  own  in 
 my  own  space.  So,  in  this  next  section, 
 you  guys,  this  is  kind  of  like  the 
 purpose  for  everything  else.  Pulls  all 
 the  other  reasoning  together.  You  know, 
 this  is  the  entrance  way  to  my  garden 
 space.  This  is  the  entrance  way  to  my 
 waterfall  area.  We  are  walking  through 
 my  drainage  easement,  which  is  pretty 
 much  Tahesian  gray  granite  stone.  And 
 then  I  set  some  flag  stone  into  place  to 
 kind  of,  you  know,  meander  through  my 
 garden.  But  you  do  not  need  a  big  lot  to 
 create  that  kind  of  space  for  yourself. 
 The  best  thing  that  you  can  do  is  create 
 a  master  plan  that's  going  to  kind  of 
 get  you  there  and  do  little  pockets  of 
 that  over  the  years.  And  then  if  you're 
 like  me  and  you're  10,  15,  20  years 
 later,  you  know,  however  long  you're  in 
 that  house  and  then  by  the  end  of  that, 
 you  created  a  garden  that  you  can  now 
 not  leave  that  house.  Like  I  could  not 
 leave  this  house  now  because  I 
 absolutely  love  what  we  created.  It's 
 not  the  bedrooms.  It's  not  the  walls. 
 It's  not  the  fans.  It's  not  everything 
 that  I  have  inside.  It's  the  outdoor 
 space  that  went  from  this  big  to  this 
 whole  space  like  this.  This  year,  spend 
 that  on  creating  the  backdrops.  Next 
 year,  create  this  section.  Next  year, 
 create  that  section.  And  so  on.  And  then 
 you  get  what  you  want  at  the  end  of  the 
 day.  Because,  you  know,  landscaping  is 
 expensive.  But  what's  great  about  it, 
 it's  not  like  buying  a  house  all  at 
 once.  It's  you  get  to  see  it  all  grow 
 in.  I  will  never  drive  a  Porsche,  but  I 
 will  have  a  beautiful  backyard  space. 
 So,  all  right.  So,  we're  going to  move 
 on  to  this  little  area  right  here.  Now, 
 this  is  centered  on  my  doorway.  I  knew 
 as  soon  as  I  walked  out  from  my  back 
 door,  I  not  only  wanted  to  see  gardens 
 on  either  side  of  my  seating  sections,  I 
 wanted  to  see  right  off  the  bat  my  water 
 feature  that  is  inset  into  the  backyard 
 slope  that's  in  set  into  the  garden.  I 
 want  it  to  feel  like  it's  all  enveloped. 
 So,  what  I  did  is  make  sure  to  leave  out 
 there's  no  planting  in  this  area  other 
 than  my  two  imperialis  vermilads,  which 
 are  going  to  stay  kind  of  compact  and 
 small  in  this  particular  spot.  And  then 
 a  step  down  boulders  that  have  been 
 sectioned  out  for  steps  and  then  they 
 step  down  into  the  garden  that  allow  me 
 to  walk  this  way  or  that  way  or  allow  me 
 to  see  without  any  type  of  interruption 
 my  backyard  waterfall  which  is  the  focal 
 point  of  my  backyard  space.  It  is  the 
 area  that  I  see  the  most  out  of  every 
 single  seating  section.  And  I  do  this 
 with  all  my  clients.  Whether  it's  a 
 water  feature  or  it's  a  fountain  or  it's 
 a  pergola  or  it's  a  specimen  palm  tree 
 that  you've  always  wanted.  I  put  that 
 right  in  the  forefront.  That  becomes  our 
 focal  point  and  then  we  work  the  garden 
 off  of  that  because  anything  will  get 
 you  to  grab  that  glass  of  wine  at  the 
 end  of  your  day  or  whatever  your 
 beverage  of  choice  is  and  take  that  walk 
 through  your  garden  because  that  is  the 
 thing  that's  going  to  take  and 
 decompress  you.  That's  the  thing  that's 
 going  to  take  and  make  you  say,  "Oh,  I 
 don't  know  why  I'm  in  here.  Let  me  walk 
 out  here."  And  then  just  kind  of  kind  of 
 come  out  here  and  sit  and  relax.  Well, 
 you  guys,  thank  you  so  much  for  joining 
 us  in  today's  garden  tour.  If  you 
 enjoyed  this  one,  then  check  out  last 
 week's  garden  tour  of  the  other  side  of 
 my  space.  And  please  list  your  favorite 
 plant  or  tree  that  we  discussed  today. 
 And  I  would  love  to  know  what  struck 
 just  struck  a  chord  with  you  in  our 
 particular  backyard.  Thank  you  guys  so 
 much.  Take  care.  See  you  next  week.

---

 Hey  gardeners,  welcome  back.  So  today  we 
 are  going  to  be  at  the  Orlando  2025 
 landscape  show. 
 I  thought  we'd  walk  through  here,  touch 
 on  some  of  these  really,  really  cool 
 species,  some  really  interesting  trees 
 that  I  can  just  kind  of  maybe  identify 
 for  you  guys.  There  might  be  some  new 
 things  in  here  that  you  guys  can  use  in 
 your  garden.  So  it's  all  about  the 
 shopping  list.  Come  on,  you  guys.  Let's 
 check  it  all  out.  All right,  you  guys. 
 So,  I  am  so  geeked  about  this  European 
 fan  palm  behind  me.  Now,  you  guys,  if 
 you  saw  last  week's  video,  you  saw  the 
 European  fan  palm  in  my  backyard,  which 
 this  one  kind  of  puts  it  to  shame,  but 
 look  at  this  bad  boy.  Oh  my  goodness.  I 
 I  know  most  people  think  that  they  stay 
 kind  of  small  and  compact  and  low  to  the 
 ground  and  grow  super  slow,  and  that 
 they  do,  but  when  they  do  take  off,  look 
 at  the  trunks.  Look  at  the  possibilities 
 of  what  this  tree  offers.  I  mean,  I  just 
 love  this  trunk  line.  Now,  this  guy's 
 probably  a  good  30  years  old,  so  he's 
 been  he's  been  in  the  ground  a  long 
 time,  but  absolutely  a  stunner.  If 
 you've  got  that  spot  in  your  garden, 
 maybe  you've  got  a  big  entrance  way 
 where  you  kind  of  want  something  really 
 dazzling  coming  out  of  the  middle  of  it, 
 like  where  some  people  would  put  a 
 fountain,  but  you're  kind  of  a  palm 
 person,  something  like  that  would  be 
 ideal  to  have  kind  of  just  really 
 showcasing  the  center  of  that  island.  I 
 just  h  I  would  take  this  guy  home  if  I 
 could  fit  it  in  my  car.  All right.  and 
 the  surrounding  trees  that  are  making 
 this  jungle  come  to  life  is  there  is  a 
 melee  palm  right  here  that  looks  like  it 
 is  a  good  maybe  10  foot  of  clear  trunk 
 here.  This  has  been  diamond  cut  to  give 
 you  this  type  of  look.  So,  this  always 
 lasts.  They  put  a  little  bit  of  a  sheen 
 on  it  to  kind  of  give  it  some  impact  and 
 you  can  do  that  throughout  the  years, 
 but  it  will  dull  out  over  time.  However, 
 that  big  vertical  frond  is  just  pretty 
 magnificent.  It's  definitely  not  for 
 every  home,  but  it's  definitely 
 something  that  you  can  incorporate  at 
 the  front  of  a  driveway  or  any  spot  that 
 you  might  want  something  super  grand. 
 Ask  your  landscaper  to  look  into  a  melee 
 palm  because  they're  pretty  stunning  and 
 they  can  handle  some  of  those  colder 
 temperatures  from  the  northern  climate. 
 I  love  the  way  it  looks.  I  don't  get  to 
 use  it  very  often  in  my  landscapes,  but 
 what  a  great  exotic  it  is  here.  Next  to 
 us  here  is  a  Droa  tree.  It  is  a  tree 
 standard  in  a  25gallon  container  and  in 
 gorgeous  bloom  right  now.  Even  amongst 
 being  in  this  building  for  three  days. 
 So  it's  absolutely  a  stunner.  Oh  gosh, 
 they've  just  got  so  many  great  things 
 going  on  here.  A  little  tippetina  tree 
 and  then  of  framed  it  with  another 
 majel.  What  a  statement  piece.  All 
 right,  you  guys.  So  let's  pop  into  the 
 next  booth. 
 All  right,  you  guys.  We  are  at  Palm  Co. 
 This  is  a  fabulous  booth  and  we've  been 
 speaking  here  with  Matt  and  he's  got 
 kind  of  just  filling  us  in  on 
 everything.  They've  got  such  a  gorgeous 
 selection  of  palm  trees.  Matt  was 
 explaining  how  easy  it  is  to  maintain  a 
 clumping  bamboo  versus  a  running  and  why 
 it's  a  pretty  good  choice  if  you  have 
 kind  of  a  narrow  area  that  you  want  to 
 get  some  really  good  coverage  in.  So, 
 I'm  going  to  let  Matt  explain  it  to  you 
 guys. 
 >> That's  clumping  bamboo. 
 Clumping.  But  the  ones  back  here  are  the 
 easiest  ones  to  look  at.  Clumping  bamboo 
 will  stay  real  tight  together  like  this. 
 Or  running  bamboo,  if  you  plant  it  here, 
 it  might  pop  up  on  the  other  side  of 
 your  driveway  or  the  sidewalk.  Trimming 
 bamboo  is  really  nice,  too.  These 
 bamboos,  like  this  one  here  in 
 particular,  this  bamboo  gets  15  ft  tall. 
 We  keep  it  at  this  nice  hedge  right  here 
 at  well,  this  one's  about  2  ft.  This  one 
 back  here,  this  is  25,  30  foot  bamboos. 
 Back  at  our  office,  we  keep  them  about 
 12  ft.  some  of  them  six  feet.  You  got  to 
 trim  them  a  little  more  often  in  the 
 summer,  very  little  in  the  winter.  Once 
 you  cut  bamboo,  it  stops  growing  up  and 
 starts  pushing  out  laterally.  So,  the 
 more  you  trim  it,  the  more  you're  going 
 to  get  thicker.  You're  just  going  to 
 have  a  nice  almost  a  zero  lot  line  with 
 this  stuff.  It's  fantastic.  Stay  away 
 from  the  running  bamboo,  though, 
 especially  in  Florida  cuz  it  just  grows 
 and  grows  and  grows.  Might  even  be 
 illegal  in  Florida.  Fact  check  me  on 
 that  one.  But  nonetheless,  the  bigger 
 the  coms  though,  the  further  they're 
 going  to  spread  out,  but  they're  going 
 to  stay  tight  together.  This  is  my 
 favorite.  This  is  dwarf  Buddha  belly 
 bamboo.  Gets  about  15  feet  tall.  I  think 
 it  has  a  great  Dr.  Seuss  look  to  it. 
 Putting  it  up  against  the  wall.  This 
 bamboo  is  usually  open  at  the  bottom 
 like  this.  When  it's  younger,  it'll  be 
 full,  but  eventually  get  naturally  like 
 this.  We  didn't  do  this.  Golden  goddess. 
 It's  a  multiplex.  Gets  real  thick.  You 
 can  see  all  the  coms  in  here.  Golden 
 gods  bamboo.  This  one  back  here  by  far 
 the  most  common  one  we  sell  popular. 
 This  is  graceful  bamboo  or  texiles 
 graasilus.  Fantastic.  Another  one  of  my 
 favorites,  Asian  lemon  bamboo.  This 
 golden  butterly  uh  coms  with  these  green 
 highlights  in  them.  That's  why  we 
 trimmed  it  up  like  this  about  2  to  3  ft. 
 So  you  can  see  this  again  against  a  wall 
 or  a  fence.  Fantastic. 
 >> Beautiful. 
 >> Yeah.  I  love  it.  And  then  the  new 
 growth.  This  one  right  here.  It  looks 
 like  a  piece  of  asparagus.  I  love  it. 
 >> It  sure  does. 
 >> Yeah.  Yeah. 
 >> Well,  we  trim  it  here  when  we're  putting 
 it  into  the  containers  and  then  it'll 
 shoot  up. 
 >> Yeah. 
 >> But  it  won't  go  much  taller  than  this. 
 But  the  new  cones  that  come  up  are  the 
 ones  that  going to  get  taller.  But 
 again,  only  about  15  ft  on  this  variety. 
 But  the  more  you  trim  it,  again,  the 
 thicker  and  denser  it's  going  to  get. 
 You  can  see  it's  got  some  new  growth 
 coming  out  here. 
 >> But  just  keep  trimming  it.  But  you  don't 
 have  to.  You  can  just  let  it  grow 
 naturally  and  not  have  this  edge  look. 
 >> Yeah.  Which  is  you  have  both  options. 
 >> Thank  you  so  much,  Matt.  I  don't  know  if 
 you  guys  saw  this  beauty  over  here,  but 
 this  is  a  fishtail  palm.  Now,  this  is 
 one  that  you  do  want  to  get  quite  large. 
 But  look  at  this  field  grown  variety. 
 This  is  about  10t  tall,  but  this  is  what 
 to  expect.  See  how  these  frrawns?  I 
 mean,  just  look  at  how  they  kind  of  come 
 and  fold  over.  They  give  you  more  of 
 that  natural  look.  I  just  absolutely 
 love  this  tree.  Now,  you  mix  this  tree, 
 this  kind  of  frond  in  with  something 
 like  the  bamboos,  and  you  guys  can 
 really  see  how  those  textures  all  mix 
 together.  I  mean,  everything  layers 
 together  with  that  real  tropical  feel. 
 You  don't  need  a  ton  of  material.  This 
 is  not  a  big  space.  This  would  be  my 
 yard  right  here.  And  look  at  these 
 pathways  that  are  created  by  this  little 
 magical  space.  I  mean,  just  so  well 
 done,  you  guys.  It's  just  so  beautiful. 
 And  we  even  got  a  little  fountain  going 
 on  in  here.  So,  I'm  just  going  to  hang 
 here  for  the  rest  of  the  show.  No,  just 
 kidding.  We're  going to  go  see  other 
 booths.  We  are  at  305  Farms.  This  is  a 
 homestead  location.  Absolutely  beautiful 
 selection  of  palms.  Now,  I  know  it's  not 
 always  common  knowledge  that  they  come 
 in  triples  or  quads  or  multi-  trunks, 
 but  coconut  palms  absolutely  do  and  can 
 be  a  fantastic  specimen  to  work  with, 
 especially  if  you  guys  have  those 
 centerpieces  that  you  want  something 
 really  dynamic  and  you  want  to  kind  of 
 just  really  showcase  it.  these  coconut 
 palms  will  do  the  trick.  So,  I  love  the 
 way  they  look  in  this  front  entrance 
 way,  and  I  think  that's  kind  of  how 
 they're  meant  to  be.  Homestead  is  known 
 for  their  soil,  that  soil  that  really 
 holds  and  retains  the  water.  So,  that's 
 why  these  trees  have  such  a  thick  thick 
 trunk  line  to  them.  So,  we've  got  a  mix 
 of  Christmas.  We've  got  a  double 
 Sylvester  right  there.  We've  got  a 
 thatch  palm.  And  then  we're  outlined 
 with  some  of  the  prettiest  and  chunkiest 
 or  palms  I  have  ever  seen.  Look  at  these 
 ora  palms.  Oh  my  goodness,  look  at  the 
 chunkiness  to  them.  Now,  this  is  a  field 
 grown,  so  this  has  been  dug  up  and  taken 
 out.  They've  trimmed  these,  and  you  can 
 kind  of  see  how  they've  trimmed  these 
 all  nice  and  tight,  so  that  way  you  have 
 the  really  big  fan  canopy  at  the  top. 
 This  dark  green  is  one  of  those  things 
 that  are  hard  to  keep  when  you  have  a 
 ramp.  So,  that's  why  the  good  soil  is  so 
 important  for  these  particular  trees 
 because  they  can  really  be  deficient  in 
 magnesium  and  then  have  a  tendency  to 
 turn  a  little  bit  golden,  especially  if 
 they're  in  the  sun.  All right,  you  guys. 
 So,  we  popped  in  real  quick  to  Epic 
 Stone  Works.  This  is  a  super  cool 
 product  that  is  actually  native  to 
 Florida  that's  made  here  that  these  guys 
 are  harvesting  and  creating  these 
 beautiful  displays.  And  Michael  here  is 
 going  to  tell  us  a  little  bit  about  it. 
 >> This  is  a  a  local  material  that  we're 
 producing  down  in  our  mine  in  Florida 
 City.  This  comes  anywhere  between  30  ft 
 to  70  ft  below  the  surface.  When  you 
 start  to  get  to  those  depths,  the 
 compaction,  the  heat,  and  the  actual 
 composition  of  the  material  changes.  So 
 we  switch  from  a  porous  material  like 
 you  see  here  with  the  Oolite.  This  is  a 
 topical  material,  very  soft.  It's  right 
 there  at  the  surface.  And  then  when  you 
 go  down  to  the  depths  of  what  we're 
 talking  about  with  the  Hemingway,  you 
 switch  over  to  a  more  shell  riddled 
 material.  It's  got  quartz  side.  It 
 shines  and  it's  very  white.  So  it's  a 
 very  dense  material  as  well. 
 >> These  are  cut  not  to  a  specific  pattern 
 or  they're 
 >> This  is  what  we  call  our  flagstone 
 format.  So  it's  very  natural.  We 
 basically  slice  the  boulders  like  a  loaf 
 of  bread.  And  these  are  2-in  slices. 
 That's  what  gives  us  the  natural  shape 
 of  that  material. 
 >> How  cool. 
 >> So,  this  is  the  most  natural  planter 
 that  we  offer.  We  call  it  our  boulder 
 planter.  Um,  so  what  we've  done 
 basically  is  taken  a  natural  boulder  out 
 of  the  ground  and  cut  the  flat  top  and 
 bottom.  And  after  we  do  that,  we  come 
 back  and  t  it  into  the  actual  trough 
 that  you  see  there.  This  is  actually  a 
 typical  installation  of  this  material. 
 This  is  a  a  privacy  wall  that  we've  made 
 an  example  of  here.  So,  we're  using  the 
 Oolite  column  motifs  with  the  Kumaru 
 privacy  fence.  I  be  I  believe  it's 
 called  louvering  the  wood  and  that  way 
 you  kind  of  have  a  little  bit  of  privacy 
 between  the  street  and  your  property. 
 >> Awesome.  Pretty  impressive  in  person.  I 
 hope  that  comes  across  on  camera.  Thank 
 you,  Michael. 
 >> Thank  you  for  having  us. 
 >> All right,  gardener.  So,  I  have  found 
 the  gem.  The  gem  in  the  nursery  show 
 today.  We've  really  really  come  into  a 
 very,  very  cool  display.  So,  this  is 
 David.  David  is  with  Garden  Industries. 
 He's  created  this  little  this  little 
 masterpiece  that  I  kind  of  just  want  to 
 sit  in  and  relax  in.  Every  little  detail 
 I  feel  has  really  been  addressed.  And  it 
 is  not  super  symmetrical.  It  is  not 
 super  outlined  where  you  just  have  a  row 
 and  a  row  and  a  row  cuz  you  guys  know 
 how  I  feel  about  that.  Just  the  perfect 
 amount  of  symmetry  and  then  a  break  in 
 the  garden.  A  lot  of  interesting 
 different  textures  and  colors  and  that 
 is  just  my  jam. 
 >> Okay,  so  this  is  Opera  Decari.  This  this 
 is  probably  75  years  old.  Um,  I  know  for 
 a  fact  there's  one  here  in  Lou  Gardens 
 in  Orlando,  which  Eric  told  me  they've 
 had  for  20  years  and  it's  about  this 
 big. 
 >> Wow. 
 >> Similar  family  to  Desert  Rose. 
 >> Oh,  yeah.  I  can  see  there  is 
 >> also  from  Madagascar.  And  I  know  people 
 who  go  to  Madagascar  for  business  and 
 they've  told  me  they've  never  seen  one 
 this  big. 
 >> Look  at  this. 
 >> So,  this  is  a  lot  of  fun  collected 
 stuff. 
 >> Yes. 
 >> You  can  see  the  relationship.  You  can 
 see  how  it's  related  to  the  desert  rose 
 and  how  cool  it  is.  But  then  you've  got 
 this  just  craziness  of  this  vine.  For 
 the  show,  it  bloomed  for  the  first  time. 
 I  don't know  if  you  guys  got  that.  How 
 cool  is  that?  And  what  do  we  have  back 
 here? 
 >> That  is  Euphoria  Santa  Cl  which  is  also 
 from  Madagascar.  They  call  it  a  silver 
 thicket.  And  this  won  the  cool  product 
 award  for  the  show. 
 >> It  did. 
 >> It  is  pokey  and  sappy,  but  everybody 
 touched  it. 
 >> Yeah. 
 >> Just  human  nature  cuz  everybody  has 
 stuck  their  hand  in  it. 
 >> And  then  we  have  a  collection  of  normal 
 tropicals.  And  that's  what  I  love  about 
 gardening. 
 >> Check  out  some  new  things. 
 >> Let's  check  out  some  new  things 
 >> things  here.  We  actually  hybridized  in 
 the  nursery 
 >> cuz  in  my  spare  time  I  have  nothing  else 
 to  do.  I  make  new  plants.  So  this 
 allocation  is  called  Paul's. 
 >> Did  I  not  tell  you  guys  why  I  love 
 David? 
 >> And  I've  had  two  tissue  companies  come 
 to  me  during  the  show  and  like  you  need 
 to  give  that  to  us.  So  somebody's  going 
 to  get  this  into  TC.  This  is  a  tabernana 
 from  Australia  that  I  hybridized  and 
 made  a  polka  dot  one  that  I  named  after 
 my  son.  So,  it's  called  Sebastian  Storm 
 because  he  was  in  a  really  bad  mood  that 
 day  because  he's  13  and  that's  what  they 
 do. 
 >> So,  I  named  that  one  after  him.  This  is 
 named  after  my  brother.  Paul's  pleaded. 
 >> Paul's  pleaded.  Oh  my  goodness.  Look  at 
 the  leaf  on  this,  you  guys.  Oh,  how 
 cool. 
 >> So,  there's  a  beonia  over  there  that  was 
 named  after  me.  I  did  not  do  it.  I  would 
 not  do  that. 
 And  this  enthorium  over  here,  which  in 
 the  cooler  weather  would  turn  purple,  is 
 named  after  one  of  my  great  nieces.  I'm 
 a  big  proponent  of  putting  names  on 
 plants  for  posterity. 
 >> Feel  like  I'm  surrounded  by  your  family. 
 This  is 
 >> It  is. 
 >> And  this  guy  back  here, 
 >> this  is  a  Philard  Wixie  eye. 
 >> Arboreal  type.  Now,  they  will  run  along 
 and  you  can  make  a  ground  cover,  but 
 they  really  want  to  climb.  So,  I  took 
 these  back  several  months  ago  and  I 
 stuck  three  in  a  pot  and  put  a  big  stick 
 in  the  middle  and  said  just  let  them 
 climb  for  the  show. 
 >> I  love  it.  And  the  scarf  is  very  cool, 
 too,  just  to  keep  it  nice  and  toasty. 
 >> Actually,  a  magazine  came  here  and  asked 
 me  what  the  inspiration  for  the  scarf 
 was,  and  the  inspiration  was  I  need  to 
 tie  it  to  a  stick,  but  they're  going  to 
 put  it  as  a  cool  new  product  or  cool  new 
 garden  idea  in  their  next  issue.  So, 
 when  you  see  your  grandma's  scarves  tied 
 to  trees  for  the  next  3  years,  it 
 happened  here  first.  You  heard  it  here, 
 you  guys.  David  started  that  trend. 
 >> Scoop  fabric  on  a  trunk. 
 >> All right,  you  guys.  So,  let's  head  on 
 to  the  next  one  before  they  close  up  on 
 us.  This  booth  is  absolutely  stunning 
 with  all  the  palm  tree  varieties  that 
 they  have  to  work  with  here.  You  don't 
 always  get  to  see  them  so  up  close  and 
 personal  without  them  being  surrounded 
 in  a  field.  So,  this  is  a  parotus  palm. 
 It  has  individual  trunks  kind  of  like  a 
 European  fan  palm,  but  it  grows  straight 
 up.  I'll  get  Bryce  to  put  in  a  picture 
 of  what  that  looks  like  when  it's  fully 
 matured.  I  think  that  they're  a  little 
 bit  underrated  because  they  are  a  cool 
 backdrop  palm  to  a  landscape  and  they 
 kind  of  give  you  that  naturalistic  look. 
 And  then  right  behind  Bryce  here,  there 
 is  a  young  triangle  fan  palm.  I  mean, 
 look  how  this  baby  is.  When  you're 
 looking  at  a  young  tree,  you  guys,  this 
 is  the  perfect  specimen  of  a  young  tree. 
 Other  than  it  being  tilted,  it's  a 
 little  tilted.  But  what's  great  about 
 this,  it  has  great  color.  It  has  a  nice 
 solid  flat  fan.  Really  nice  grouping  of 
 upper  fronds.  And  you  can  really  see  how 
 this  is  going  to  create  a  beautiful  fan. 
 So  when  you  guys  are  looking  in  the 
 nursery  and  you're  looking  for  a 
 25gallon  tree,  this  is  a  nice  young 
 triangle  fan  palm.  This  is  a  mule  palm. 
 It  was  in  a  recent  video  and  these  are  a 
 mix  between  a  pendo  and  a  queen  palm. 
 Absolutely  a  stunner  as  they  really 
 mature  and  open  up.  And  then  back  here 
 we  have  a  collection  of  Chinese  fan 
 palms,  lady  palms,  which  are  the  rapist 
 variety. 
 So  right  next  to  that  palm  tree  grouping 
 is  a  ribbon  palm.  This  one  is  fairly 
 young,  only  about  2  foot  of  wood,  but  a 
 beautiful  tree.  Nice  color  in  the  thatch 
 here.  They  did  a  blunt  cut  to  it.  So 
 this  is  a  kind  of  a  nice  cool  clean 
 look.  As  the  tree  gets  bigger,  then 
 they'll  do  more  of  a  diamond  cut,  which 
 is  a  little  bit  just  a  little  bit 
 fancier  look  to  the  tree.  And  you  can 
 just  kind  of  see  this  is  a  perfect 
 entranceway  tree  grouping  or  on  the 
 corner  of  the  house.  This  is  something 
 that  can  really  handle  those  cold 
 temperatures.  So  for  you  guys  up  in 
 Orlando  and  Jacksonville  area,  these 
 trees  will  do  super  super  well  as  your 
 kind  of  nice  sturdy  strong  trees  to  the 
 end.  You  can  bring  them  in  like  this. 
 You  can  bring  them  in  already  nice  and 
 matured.  They  do  grow  nice  and  fast.  So, 
 they're  a  tree  that  really  can  take  hold 
 and  become  a  good  anchor  tree.  And  this 
 is  so  cool,  you  guys.  I  mean,  look  at 
 this  seag.  They  framed  it  into  a  tree. 
 So,  this  is  what  you  call  a  seag  grape 
 standard.  So,  if  you  don't  want  one  that 
 has  a  multi-  stem,  this  is  a  cool  tree 
 variety  that  you  can  kind  of  keep  nice 
 and  compact.  Now,  these  guys  take  some 
 work.  So,  they're  not  for  the  younger 
 gardeners,  they're  for  more  established 
 gardeners,  but  they're  definitely  a  cool 
 tree  to  incorporate.  And  then  this  mama 
 jama  right  behind  us.  Look  at  this 
 bismar  palm.  Oh  my  goodness.  You  can 
 tell  it's  doing  what  it's  meant  to  be 
 doing,  which  is  the  centerpiece  of  the 
 area.  This  is  directly  what  the  focus  is 
 all  about.  Everybody  else  is  just  casts 
 and  guest  stars  in  this  drama.  This  is 
 the  drama  in  the  garden.  I  love  how 
 Bismar's  do  that.  You're  going  to  need 
 some  room  for  these  bad  boys.  They're 
 definitely  a  tree  that  needs  some  room 
 to  breathe,  some  spreading  ability.  So, 
 they're  not  so  much  for  close  neighbors, 
 but  if  you  got  that  corner  in  your  yard 
 or  if  you've  got  that  nice  island  in  the 
 front  that  you  need  some  power  popping 
 out  of  it,  a  bismar  palm  with  that 
 silver  contrast  of  color  is  is  pretty 
 stunning  in  the  garden.  And  then  to  pair 
 it,  we've  got  a  silver  buttonwood  bush 
 over  here.  These  have  kind  of  a  soft 
 almost  like  a  lamb's  ear  kind  of  texture 
 to  them.  They're  beautiful  as  a  bush, 
 which  is  fabulous  because  they're  a 
 Florida  native.  And  then  we've  got  a 
 tree  standard  over  this  way. 
 And  this  is  kind  of  my  favorite  way  to 
 use  them.  I  like  it  when  they  have  a 
 clear  trunk  to  them  and  they're  more  of 
 this  cone-shaped  tree.  They  make  a 
 beautiful  little  feature  in  the  garden. 
 Don't  get  too  large  and  you  can  maintain 
 them  this  way  forever  and  ever.  So 
 that's  kind  of  a  a  nice  feature  when  you 
 kind  of  want  a  tree  that  has  contrast 
 especially  say  you  guys  have  got,  you 
 know,  big  groups  of  oras  or  big  groups 
 of  something  dark  green  behind  you  and 
 then  you  need  something  a  pop  of 
 brightness  of  color.  The  silver  does  a 
 great  job  of  doing  that.  This  is  a  great 
 full  sun  tree  option.  If  I  could  take 
 this  tree  home  with  me,  I  would.  This  is 
 a  European  olive  tree.  Obviously,  it's  a 
 nice  65gallon  size.  This  is  a  tree 
 variety,  but  it's  something  that  grew 
 from  a  shrub  into  a  tree  form.  It  really 
 has  this  cool  grape  viny  trunk  already 
 established.  What  a  great  shape  this 
 tree  is  going  to  offer  in  no  time.  It's 
 really  going  to  be  a  stunner  out  in  the 
 garden.  I  can't  imagine  what  it's  going 
 to  look  like  in  a  few  years  and  really 
 just  become  a  specimen  in  the  space. 
 Right  over  here,  we  have  the  meta 
 pacarpus.  Now,  this  is  a  little  bit 
 harder  to  find,  but  if  you  guys  can  find 
 a  Metapot  carpass  over  your  typical 
 podocarpus,  they  are  denser,  they  are 
 fuller,  they  grow  slower,  they're  a  much 
 to  me  a  much  nicer  variety.  They  are  a 
 little  bit  more  expensive  than  the 
 regular  pod  carpus,  but  you  definitely 
 get  paid  back  for  it.  It's  just  an 
 overall  denser  tree.  So,  for  the  size 
 that  you  would  buy  this  in  if  you  bought 
 in  a  3gon  size,  it's  such  a  better  deal 
 because  it's  going  to  be  a  chunkier 
 version  of  itself  in  a  3gon  size,  these 
 guys  chunk  out  a  lot  faster.  So,  the 
 Metapot  carpets  are  really  the  way  to  go 
 if  you  can  find  them. 
 You  guys,  check  out  this  King  Sego.  Oh 
 my  goodness.  Now,  this  is  a  bad  bad  mama 
 jama.  This  is  an  old  guy  from  Things 
 That  Grow.  And  you  can  see  what  a 
 specimen.  They're  all  about  the 
 specimens  in  this  nursery.  So,  if  you 
 guys  are  wanting  something  super  special 
 and  you're  near  the  Groveland  area,  this 
 might  be  a  might  be  one  to  check  out.  Oh 
 my  goodness,  what  a  gorgeous,  gorgeous 
 tree. 
 [Music] 
 So,  I  know  oftent  times  you  guys  when 
 we're  putting  together  designs  or  when 
 you  guys  are  calling  in  and  you're 
 shopping  at  nurseries,  you're  looking  at 
 the  difference  of  field  grown  material 
 over  potted  material.  Most  nurseries 
 carry  mostly  potted  material,  but  in 
 some  cases,  if  you're  working  with  a 
 landscape  company  and  they  have  the 
 machinery  to  move  it,  you  can  really 
 tell  the  difference  with  fieldgrown 
 material.  Well,  this  is  called  ENB  and 
 it's  burlap  wrapped  and  this  is  what  a 
 lot  of  landscapers  choose.  Obviously, 
 the  effort  of  the  installation  is 
 involved.  You  could  install  a  tree  that 
 is  more  established,  that's  more  dense, 
 that's  really  just  an  overall  chunkier, 
 fuller  caliber  kind  of  tree  over  a 
 potted  tree  that  might  be  the  same  size, 
 but  you  can  really  see  the  significant 
 difference.  These  are  all  field  grown 
 trees,  and  you  really  feel  like  these 
 guys  have  had  some  growth.  Now,  if  this 
 tree  were  in  a  pot,  it  would  be  in  a 
 65gallon  pot  and  it  would  be  about  half 
 the  size,  half  of  the  thickness  that  you 
 see  in  this  trunk.  It  would  be  much  much 
 more  narrow  and  the  canopy  because  it's 
 in  a  smaller  pot.  The  canopy  itself 
 would  be  more  condensed.  They  wouldn't 
 be  as  aggressive.  They  would  be  more 
 like  in  line  with  this  and  more 
 vertical.  So,  if  you  have  the  option,  if 
 there's  choice  involved  and  you  can  go 
 with  field  grow  material,  always  go  that 
 way  because  I  try  to  go  that  way  when  I 
 can.  All right,  you  guys.  So,  you  know 
 that  I'm  always  stressing  about  really 
 taking  good  care  of  your  plants  and  your 
 trees.  That's  the  best  way  to  protect 
 your  investment,  everything  that  you  put 
 into  it.  So,  I'm  here  with  Gary  at 
 Perfect  Palm  and  he's  going  to  just  kind 
 of  explain  a  little  bit  about  his 
 product. 
 >> So,  Perfect  Palm  was  developed  through 
 decades  of  actually  using  other  products 
 and  finding  the  shortcomings  and 
 pitfalls  of  those  that  just  didn't  work 
 across  everything  in  the  industry  for 
 containers,  in  ground,  and  fertilizer 
 that  can  be  used  at  the  time  of 
 planting.  And  as  growers  ourselves,  we 
 needed  something  that  would  work  across 
 the  board  on  everything  instead  of 
 having  to  blend  over  and  over  again  for 
 ourselves  or  customers.  So  through  years 
 of  research  and  trying  different 
 products  and  methods  and  feeding 
 techniques,  we  came  up  with  perfect  palm 
 fertilizer  years  ago  and  then 
 incorporated  the  newest  coatings,  XCU 
 coatings,  and  made  a  new  feeding  method 
 of  smaller  spoon  feeding  methods  to 
 where  you  use  light  feeding  more  often. 
 So  it  reduces  the  chance  of  leeching, 
 runoff,  and  harmful  environmental  uh 
 factors  that  outdated  fertilizers  did 
 that  only  fed  a  few  times  a  year  doing 
 much  heavier  feedings.  So  this  is  much 
 more  ecologically  friendly.  You  can 
 reuse  the  pales.  It's  got  the  scoopers 
 in  there,  which  the  customers  are 
 finding  easy  to  use.  And  it  has  dual 
 forms  of  ingredients,  which  a  lot  of the 
 other  fertilizers  don't.  Uh  if  your  pH 
 is  neutral,  sometimes  iron  or  magnesium 
 doesn't  uptake.  So  we  included  two  forms 
 of  that  as  well.  and  very  high  levels  of 
 nutrients.  So,  it's  not  a  lot  of 
 fillers.  So,  without  the  fillers,  it 
 allows  us  to  use  smaller  amounts  more 
 often  and  even  get  better  results.  You 
 can  use  it  year  round  and  even  if  you're 
 in  northern  Florida  or  areas  of  cold,  it 
 can  even  increase  their  cold  tolerance 
 and  boost  their  resilience  after  the 
 freeze  because  you  can  get  freeze 
 induced  deficiencies  of  boron  and 
 manganesees. 
 So,  a  lot  of  this  has  been  backed  by 
 studies  of  the  University  of  Florida  and 
 the  potassium  levels,  the  uptake  in 
 those  actually  increase  their  hardiness 
 for  freeze  prior  to  the  freeze  as  well. 
 So,  it's  one  of  the  few  products  that's 
 out  right  now  that  you  can  use  um  for 
 inground  and  container  material  and  even 
 at  the  time  of  install.  So,  it's  great 
 for  installs  um  follow-up  care, 
 maintenance,  and  use  on  all  different 
 palms. 
 >> As  soon  as  I  was  talking  to  Gary,  I  was 
 like,  "Oh,  so  there's  a  lot  there  that  I 
 didn't  realize."  really  going  to  take  it 
 to  the  whole  next  level.  We  get  a  lot  of 
 you  guys  concerned  about  when  we  get 
 those  cold  snaps  and  I  know  that  you 
 guys  are  just  like  me  and  you're 
 planting  those  tropicals  just  a  little 
 bit  past  your  zone.  Now,  this  is  a 
 product  that  really  could  help  save  you 
 in  the  long  run  and  get  some  of  those 
 favorites  in  your  garden  without,  you 
 know,  without  as  much  worries.  All 
 right,  you  guys,  and  I'll  put  the  link 
 down  in  the  description  down  below  for 
 any  of  you  guys  interested.  Well,  hey 
 you  guys,  I  want  to  slide  in  here  real 
 quick  with  a  couple  honorable  mentions. 
 I  wanted  to  specifically  mention  these 
 nurseries  because  they  are  open  to  the 
 public,  which  a  lot  of  some  of  these 
 bigger  nurseries  are  not.  The  one 
 nursery  is  a  very  new  one  and  I  actually 
 got  to  meet  this  gentleman,  Ben.  He's 
 from  Seven's  Nursery.  They're  here  in 
 Sebastian,  Florida.  It's  a  fairly  young 
 nursery,  but  it  is  charming.  I  checked 
 them  out  online.  I  got  to  meet  him  and 
 his  wife.  Cute  young  family.  And  they 
 have  such  such  a  lovely  display  online. 
 So,  can't  wait  to  check  out  their 
 nursery  coming  up.  But  I  thought  you 
 guys  might  enjoy  them  because  they  have 
 a  lot  of  the  same  plant  material  that  I 
 use  pretty  often  and  I  show  in  these 
 videos.  The  next  nursery  is  a  larger 
 nursery,  but  they  are  open  to  the 
 public.  You  do  need  to  kind  of  make  an 
 appointment  if  you  kind  of  want  to  walk 
 through  the  gardens  with  them,  but  they 
 are  out  of  Miami,  Florida.  It's  called 
 RDM  Landscape  Services.  They're  actually 
 able  to  help  with  maybe  some  landscape 
 plans  that  you  might  have  generated  and 
 you  kind  of  want  to  just  kind  of  get  a 
 big  bulk  of  it  at  one  nursery,  this 
 might  be  a  great  location  to  go.  And  the 
 next  one,  this  nursery  is  a  nursery  that 
 I  go  to  anytime  I'm  in  the  area  just 
 because  it  is  such  a  cool  place  to  see. 
 I  wish  wish  wish  I  had  gotten  a  chance 
 to  go  through  the  booth  with  you  guys 
 because  they  had  a  gorgeous  booth.  Every 
 year  they  do  a  beautiful  booth,  but  it's 
 called  Excelsia  Gardens.  They  are  at  a 
 Lockxa  Hatchee,  Florida.  They  have  such 
 a  beautiful  selection  of  some  of  the 
 most  gorgeous  tropicals.  They  have  a 
 nice  walkway  pass  through  the  green 
 houses  and  and  it's  just  got  a  beautiful 
 tropical  display.  So,  if  you're  looking 
 for  maybe  some  inspiration,  this  is  a 
 great  place  to  stop  and  check  out.  Thank 
 you  so  much  for  joining  us  today.  I  hope 
 you  enjoyed  today's  video.  I  will  see 
 you  next  week.  Please  check  out  last 
 week's  video  of  our  backyard  garden  tour 
 that  had  some  of  these  cool  tropicals  in 
 it.  So,  thanks  so  much.  Take  care.  See 
 you  next  week.  Bye-bye.

---

 Well,  hello  gardeners.  Welcome  to  my 
 backyard.  Today  we  are  going  to  do  an 
 in-depth  garden  tour  of  my  backyard 
 space.  I  think  it's  going  to  allow  you 
 to  choose  a  lot  of  different  species  and 
 varieties  throughout  our  Florida 
 tropical  gardens.  So,  for  those  of  you 
 guys  who  are  new  to  this  channel,  my 
 name  is  Jennifer  Beaven.  I  am  a 
 landscape  designer  here  in  Vero  Beach, 
 Florida,  zone  10A.  We  service  along  the 
 Treasure  and  Space  Coast,  and  we  also  do 
 designs  throughout  the  state  of  Florida 
 and  virtual  consults.  So  check  us  out  if 
 this  is  the  kind  of  style  you're  looking 
 for.  But  for  now,  let's  just  talk  about 
 plants  and  trees  because  I  am  a 
 landscape  designer  and  have  been  for  a 
 long,  long  time.  But  I'm  a  gardener 
 first.  I  love  working  in  my  garden.  I 
 love  creating  new  fields  and  new  spaces. 
 However,  I'm  not  the  biggest  fan  of 
 maintenance.  So  you're  going to  notice 
 in  my  particular  garden,  I  designed  it 
 to  help  me  minimize  the  amount  of 
 maintenance  involved  with  a  Florida 
 gardens.  I'll  kind  of  explain  why  as  we 
 go  into  certain  plants  and  trees  and 
 what  they  offer  in  the  gardens.  So,  I'm 
 going  to  get  Bryce  to  kind  of  turn 
 around  and  you  guys  will  see  my 
 neighbor's  backyard  where  they've  kind 
 of  allowed  it  just  to  be  a  full  backyard 
 with  very  little  landscaping.  They've 
 just  kept  more  open  space. 
 We're  on  about  a  quarter  of  an  acre. 
 Now,  they  actually  have  more  backyard 
 space  than  we  have.  So,  we  have  pretty 
 much  about  right  off  the  foundation  of 
 our  house  line.  We've  got  a  12t  patio 
 that  runs  along  the  length  of  my  house. 
 Then  we've  got  this  little  9  to  10  foot 
 walkway  space  which  is  pretty  much  a 
 drainage  easement  here  right  through  the 
 middle.  And  this  has  become  our  walkway 
 area  because  we  just  could  not  get  grass 
 to  grow.  And  then  we  took  the  remainder 
 of  the  property  line  which  is  about  16 
 to  18t  deep  and  it  goes  up  at  kind  of a 
 slant  like  you  saw  my  neighbors  did.  And 
 we've  created  a  layered  backyard 
 landscape. 
 All  right.  So,  we  are  here  at  the  edge 
 of  my  property  line.  I  pretty  much 
 landscape  from  one  end  of  the  property 
 line  to  the  other.  This  is  my  finishing 
 point.  Right  on  the  other  side  of  this 
 hedge  here  is  my  neighbor's  property. 
 So,  we  wanted  to  make  sure  that  we 
 started  with  something  that  was  an 
 aggressive  grower,  something  that  was  a 
 good  dense  grower,  kind  of  a  sound 
 barrier,  a  tall  plant  that  we  could  work 
 with.  So,  we  have  the  Kucia  hedge  that 
 runs  the  length  from  the  corner  of  this 
 drainage  easement  all  the  way  up  to  the 
 edge  of  my  rear  property  line  back 
 there.  I  have  a  love  affair  with  this 
 plant  because  of  its  durability,  its 
 versatility,  and  just  overall  toughness 
 of  Florida  environment.  So,  it  is  a 
 fantastic  plant  to  use.  Can  be  a  little 
 cold  sensitive  in  the  northern  areas  of 
 Florida.  So,  anything  I  would  say  above 
 Satellite  Beach,  I'd  probably  steer  away 
 from  it.  A  little  too  burnt,  too 
 aggressive.  However,  it  they  are  such 
 such  an  aggressive  grower  that  you  know 
 if  you  do  get  some  burn  back,  you  trim 
 it  and  then  let  it  flush  back  out.  So, 
 it  is  just  such  a  great  grower.  Um,  they 
 do  like  proper  drainage.  So,  you  want  to 
 make  sure  you  plant  them  a  little  bit 
 high  if  they're  going  to  be  in  a  low 
 area.  You'll  notice  that  because  my 
 landscaping  really  likes  a  lot  of  water, 
 I  have  it  set  on  that  slope  and 
 everything  drains  straight  down.  So,  it 
 really,  really  works  really  well  as  the 
 water  drains  all  this  way  and  this  way. 
 So,  that's  a  great  environment  for  it. 
 If  you're  on  flat  land,  just  plant  the 
 Kooi  a  tad  bit  high  to  make  sure  that 
 water  doesn't  sit  on  those  roots.  There 
 are  roof  lines  and  houses  pretty  much 
 everywhere.  We  are  in  a  a  typical 
 suburban  neighborhood,  houses  on  the 
 side,  roof  lines  to  the  back,  big 
 community,  and  a  big  clubhouse  area  over 
 in  that  rear  side.  So,  this  is  something 
 that  I  knew  I  wanted  to  make  sure  that 
 became  very  private  over  time.  And  it 
 really  has.  I  really  feel  like  we  are 
 nice  and  secluded  and  tucked  into  this 
 space,  which  was  the  goal,  you  guys. 
 Now,  this  was  kind  of  a  little 
 makeshift.  This  is  a  drainage  easement. 
 I  still  wanted  coverage  here.  I  feel 
 like  I'm  getting  coverage  from 
 everywhere  from  all  my  neighbors.  I 
 couldn't  plant  right  in  the  center  of 
 this  drainage  easement  because  in 
 terrible  storms,  this  area  right  here 
 will  fill  up  with  water.  So,  what  I 
 tried  to  do  was  take  plants  or  trees 
 that  are  going  to  kind  of  grow  up  and 
 out  and  over  top  of  this  area.  So,  these 
 guys  are  going  to  search  for  the  sun. 
 And  these  are  plumeriia.  These  are  pink, 
 yellow,  and  white  blooms  on  the 
 plumeriia.  Unfortunately,  nobody's 
 blooming  today.  But  these  giant  leaves 
 offer  kind  of  just  that  bit  of 
 concealment,  that  bit  of  tropical 
 thickness  or  fullness  and  what  would 
 naturally  be  a  very  open  area.  So,  if 
 you  guys  have  a  similar  situation  and 
 you're  trying  to  get  something  to  branch 
 over  into  that  area,  a  great  branching 
 plant  is  plumeriia.  They'll  do  a 
 fantastic  job  of  following  the  sun.  So 
 they'll  come  in  this  way,  cross  each 
 other,  really  find  little  interesting 
 grape  viny  trunks.  I'm  hoping  in  time  as 
 these  guys  get  bigger  and  come  over 
 here,  I'll  hang  different  types  of 
 birdhouses  or  bird  feeders  or  something 
 underneath  of  those  trunks,  utilizing 
 that  kind  of  cool  look  and  then  kind  of 
 also  filling  this  space  as  these  guys 
 get  tall.  The  next  tree  that  I  chose 
 that  I  planted  kind  of  at  an  angle  is 
 this  double  bottle  palm.  Now,  I  planted 
 him,  he  was  very  young  and  small  when  I 
 put  him  in.  It's  really  starting  to  take 
 off  and  grow  in  our  Florida  summer  this 
 year,  but  it  is  going  to  naturally  come 
 over  and  completely  conceal  this  corner. 
 So,  this  frond  that's  here  when  it's 
 full  grown  is  going  to  be  14t  wide  and 
 they're  going  to  come  out  just  like  this 
 and  fill  this  whole  space.  No  opening 
 here  between  this  guy  and  the 
 neighboring  plantings  next  to  us.  This 
 is  going  to  be  a  very  full  ending  to  my 
 landscape.  and  that's  what  I  wanted  all 
 the  way  around  concealment,  but  I  had  to 
 deal  with  a  drainage  easement  that 
 wouldn't  allow  me  to  have  plantings  all 
 the  way  through.  So,  this  is  the  best  I 
 could  do  with  that  spot.  We  have  a 
 flagstone  walkway  that  leads  through  the 
 drainage  easement.  This  is  fairly  new.  I 
 am  in  love  with  it.  Creating  little 
 walkway  space,  little  open  areas  that 
 lead  out  to  an  area  that  you  can  drop 
 some  debris  behind  your  planting  is 
 go-to.  I  have  them  in  several  areas  of 
 my  garden.  That's  an  easy  way  to 
 maintain  your  garden  because  there's 
 always  going  to  be  that  in  Florida. 
 Sometimes  it's  just  as  easy  as  walking 
 through  your  garden  for  five  or  6 
 minutes  and  clip  something  that's  just  a 
 little  unsightly  and  stick  it  back  there 
 or  grab  a  frond  that's  kind  of  fallen 
 and  put  it  back  there.  And  voila,  you're 
 not  working  in  the  garden.  You're  not 
 distracted.  You're  back  up  there  having 
 that  cup  of  coffee  or  that  glass  of  wine 
 and  spending  more  time  up  there  than  in 
 your  garden.  The  showstopper  right  here 
 that's  the  only  one  that's  in  bloom 
 right  now  is  the  pigota.  The  pigota  is  a 
 beautiful  summertime  bloomer  with  that 
 orange  flame.  Oh  my  goodness.  I  just 
 cannot  think  of  of  a  plant  that  really 
 shows  off  more  than  this  plant  and 
 blooms  so  often.  Sometimes  I  get  blooms 
 even  in  the  winter.  You  do  have  to 
 really  stick  with  the  maintenance  on 
 this.  When  I  talked  about  some  of  the 
 plants  in  my  garden  being 
 lowmaintenance,  I  would  say  a  good  90% 
 of  them  are.  This  gal  is  not.  She  does 
 need  to  be  cut  in  the  winter.  She  can 
 get  a  little  bit  thin,  not  as 
 attractive,  but  all  summer  long  she 
 blooms.  She  has  these  big  giant  leaves 
 and  it  just  has  an  interesting  look.  But 
 what  she  does  do  is  she  invites  her 
 friends  and  her  family  and  you  know 
 and  offers  little  popups  of  new  pagotas 
 everywhere.  If  you  like  this  plant,  make 
 sure  that  you  really  like  it  and  you 
 leave  a  spot  out  for  her  invite  her 
 friends  because  that's  exactly  what'll 
 happen.  And  the  good  thing  about  it  is 
 it's  very  easy  to  pop  up  and  propagate 
 if  you  want  to  move  it  or  gift  it  to  a 
 neighbor  or  a  friend  or  a  family.  So,  I 
 do  that  about  twice  a  year  where  I'll 
 select  the  ones  that  I  don't  want  and 
 pop  them  up  and  get  rid  of  them.  To  the 
 back  of  her,  um,  these  guys  are  not 
 right  now  in  bloom,  but  this  beautiful 
 collection  of  my  buffer  here  is  the 
 Brazilian  red  cloaks.  Oh  my  goodness. 
 Same  big  giant  leaf  does  not  spread  like 
 the  pigota  does  or  offer  little  runners 
 or  pups  that  go  everywhere.  It  is  a 
 plant  that  absolutely  loves  to  connect 
 together,  becomes  a  solid  wall,  and 
 really  just  does  a  gorgeous  job  of 
 becoming  a  red  showstopper  when  it's  in 
 bloom.  It  does  bloom  most  summers.  It 
 does  bloom  in  filtered  light,  full  sun. 
 It  can  get  a  little  thirsty.  So,  if  you 
 guys  are  going  to  put  it  in  full  sun, 
 make  sure  that  you  have  an  irrigation 
 head  nearby  that  does  spray  and  hit  all 
 of  the  roots  of  these  guys  because  they 
 can  get  a  little  bit  little  bit  thirsty 
 in  that  heat.  But,  they  will  bloom  more 
 in  the  full  sun.  So,  it's  definitely 
 worth  having  a  little  extra  water.  This 
 area  is  more  shady,  but  it  does  bloom 
 pretty  often  here  as  well.  Down  below, 
 I've  had  these  guys  for  ages.  This  is 
 the  gold  dust  croin.  One  of  my  favorite 
 croins  to  use.  Beautiful  leaflet 
 coloring  variegation  in  here.  Just  a 
 nice  compact  chunky  little  collection.  I 
 love  to  pair  these  with  a  dark  green. 
 So,  if  you  have  something  like  this  and 
 then  you  have  something  dark  green 
 behind  it,  it's  just  such  a  gorgeous 
 combination.  I  think  that  they  work 
 really,  really  well  together.  So,  it's 
 just  a  collection  of  three  of  those.  I 
 brought  them  in  at  seven  gallon  size  and 
 then  I  have  one  anchor  in  the  other  side 
 of  the  walkway.  And  just  what  a  nice 
 little  grouping  of  Croin  that  can  handle 
 filtered  light.  Now,  this  Croin  variety, 
 you  can  tell  right  here,  this  particular 
 one  over  on  this  side  and  that  middle 
 get  more  sun  than  the  other  Croins.  You 
 can  see  the  difference  what  you're  going 
 to  get  in  a  full  sun  environment.  This 
 is  what  the  leaf  coloring  is  going  to 
 look  like  for  this  particular  gold  dust 
 croin.  And  then  in  the  shade  leaflet 
 coloring  is  going  to  look  like  in  the 
 same  variety  of  croin.  And  I  don't know, 
 you  pick.  But  I  think  they're  both  very 
 pretty.  Now,  this  down  here  is  um  a 
 landscaper  mistake.  So,  even  doing  this 
 for  as  long  as  I'm  doing  this,  I  still 
 make  my  mistakes.  this  little  area.  I 
 thought  I  had  enough  shade  coverage 
 between  this  grouping  here  and  thinking 
 that  this  bottle  palm  was  going  to  get 
 big  enough  to  shade  this  little 
 collection  of  ground  orchids.  Trying 
 them,  giving  a  little  bit  more  time.  But 
 you  can  see  the  sunburn  on  these  guys. 
 These  bloom  a  beautiful  pink  flower. 
 Believe  it  or  not,  I  have  some  that  get 
 afternoon  sun,  but  they  only  get  it  for 
 about  2  hours,  and  they're  doing 
 beautifully.  They're  blooming  more. 
 They're  very  happy.  It's  such  a  balance 
 of  where  to  place  your  plants  that  it 
 really  matters.  So  over  here  I  have  a 
 large  ora  palm.  Now  I  have  trimmed  and 
 trimmed  on  her.  She's  got  multiple 
 stocks.  She's  recently  been  trimmed  so 
 she's  a  little  bit  more  narrow  than  she 
 normally  is.  Normally  I  let  her  become 
 nice  and  full  and  thick  so  that  way  I 
 can't  really  see  to  the  back  of  her. 
 This  tree  for  the  longest  time, 
 literally  for  10  years,  has  been  my 
 blockage  from  the  house  directly  behind 
 me,  from  the  pool  screen  directly  behind 
 me.  This  tree  was  a  tree  that  blocked  it 
 all.  So  now  that  the  other  trees  have 
 grown  in  and  the  Kucia  have  grown  in, 
 I've  cut  this  tree  back  because  I  don't 
 necessarily  need  that  much  density  in 
 this  spot  and  I  wanted  to  see  a  little 
 bit  more  to  the  backside  of  it.  So  you 
 know,  it's  amazing  how  landscapes  can  do 
 that.  They  really  can  solve  a  problem 
 right  off  the  bat  for  four  or  five,  six 
 years  and  then  as  your  other  landscapes 
 caught  up  then  now  you  might  not  need 
 that  for  that.  So  you  can  address  and 
 adjust  based  on  what  your  needs  are.  I 
 hear  people  say,  "Well,  I  don't  want  a 
 tree  that's  going  to  get  too  tall  and 
 out  of  sight."  Well,  I  I  get  that,  but 
 they  need  immediate  coverage.  Sometimes 
 it's  good  to  go  with  something  like  that 
 that  grows  fast,  that's  going  to  give 
 you  almost  immediate  coverage  and  then 
 plant  on  the  next  phase  of  your 
 landscaping  to  catch  up  with  that.  So, 
 when  that  tree  does  become  too  large, 
 you  know,  maybe  10  years  later,  then  it 
 might  be  time  to  either  remove  the  tree 
 or  cut  it  back.  So,  the  tree  is  no 
 longer  the  focal  point,  but  all  the 
 landscaping  around  it  has  grown  in  and 
 kind  of  taken  over  the  job.  It's  like 
 they've  stepped  into  the  shadow  of  that 
 tree  and  now  become  the  focal  point 
 themselves.  So,  I  think  that  that's 
 great.  So,  think  of  your  landscaping  as 
 an  evolving  situation  because  that's 
 what  gardens  do.  That's  why  gardens 
 become  such  a  big  part  of  us.  They  take 
 on  a  life  of  their  own  and  you  find 
 yourself  walking  through  them.  I  don't 
 know,  maybe  I'm  crazy.  Maybe  I'm  the 
 only  one  that  does  that.  But  you  find 
 yourself  walking  through  them  going, 
 "Oh,  hello.  Look  at  you.  You're 
 blooming.  Look  at  you.  You're  happy. 
 Look  at  you.  You're  not.  What's  going 
 on?"  That's  why  gardens  are  so  pleasant. 
 So  right  here  we  have  a  Malayan  coconut 
 palm.  Now  they're  more  in  the  dwarf 
 varieties  of  coconut  palms.  They  have  a 
 nice  chunky  trunk.  Takes  them  a  while  to 
 really  get  some  good  size  to  them.  They 
 still  produce  coconuts  like  crazy.  This 
 guy  has  been  in  the  ground  for  10  years. 
 So  really  established,  but  I  hear  all 
 the  time  where  people  put  a  coconut  palm 
 in  at  6t  tall  and  then  2  years  later 
 it's  20  foot  tall.  It's  not  usually  the 
 case.  But  with  Malayans,  it's  really  not 
 the  case.  Malayans  grow  slower.  They're 
 more  of  a  compact  canopy  to  them.  They 
 have  a  little  bit  of  a  chunkier  base  and 
 they  just  take  a  little  bit  more  time  to 
 get  to  that  size.  So,  if  you  want 
 something  that  sticks  around  in  the 
 garden  a  little  bit  longer,  your 
 Malayans  are  the  way  to  go.  To  the  back 
 is  a  spindle  palm  that  is  struggling 
 because  it's  not  getting  tons  of  light. 
 To  the  right  over  there  is  another 
 Malayan.  You  guys  know  the  queen  of  my 
 heart  is  the  Queen  Emma.  This  is  the 
 perfect  environment  for  a  Queen  Emma.  If 
 you  guys  have  a  queen  Emma  and  you  have 
 a  little  protection  from  whatever  tree, 
 it  could  be  an  oak  tree,  it  could  be  any 
 kind  of  hardwood  tree,  it  could  be  a 
 palm  tree,  they  love  a  little  bit  of 
 filter  light  where  their  leaves  are 
 getting  sunlight  through  them,  but 
 they're  not  getting  the  harsh  direct 
 rays.  When  that  happens,  they  get  this 
 beautiful  purple  tones  to  the  leaves. 
 So,  you  get  this  gorgeous  all  the  new 
 growth  has  more  purple  in  it  and  then 
 you  have  that  striking  green  to  the 
 center  and  then  of  course  this  beautiful 
 fragrant  bloom  that  they  offer.  is  such 
 a  stunner.  That  bloom  will  last  for  a 
 good  month.  Sometimes  I'll  get  multiple 
 ones  at  a  time.  It  seems  like  it's 
 always  blooming  all  summer  long.  They 
 start  early  spring  and  bloom  all  summer. 
 I  even  had  a  couple  this  winter.  So,  as 
 long  as  they're  happy,  I  find  that  they 
 bloom  pretty  much  that  they  show  their 
 appreciation  by  blooming  and  I 
 appreciate  their  appreciation.  So,  I 
 think  it's  great.  Down  below  are  my 
 sanchesia.  I  love  love love  Sancheesia. 
 They're  a  soft  plant.  They  do  need  some 
 filtered  protection.  They  can  handle 
 full  sun,  but  they  will  bleach  out  a 
 little  bit  and  they  will  need  a  little 
 extra  water  if  you're  planning  on 
 putting  them  in  the  full  sun.  But  some 
 filtered  light  like  we  have  here,  they 
 do  great.  Now,  along  this  edge  gets  more 
 sun  than  inside,  and  the  leaf  color  will 
 change.  They'll  be  a  little  bit  brighter 
 on  the  edges  where  you  get  sun,  where 
 you  get  more  shade,  they'll  be  a  little 
 bit  more  of  that  darker,  and  the  yellow 
 will  go  almost  white  versus  yellow.  But 
 the  reason  why  I  have  them  here  is 
 because  the  Queen  Emma  is  gorgeous  as  it 
 pops  up  like  out  of  a  birthday  cake 
 here.  But  the  bottom  stock,  it's 
 something  that  I  like  to  hide.  So  I 
 usually  when  I  have  a  tree  like  that, 
 I'll  put  a  skirt  planting,  something 
 chunky  and  full  and  lower  and  compact 
 that  will  really  fill  up  the  base  of 
 this  planting.  So  that  way  you  go  from  a 
 sea  of  these  to  that  upright  look  of 
 this  guy  popping  out  of  the  middle  of 
 it.  And  that's  what  these  are  great  for. 
 I  could  have  continued  on  with  the 
 sloppy  painters.  Those  would  have 
 worked.  Or  a  different  Croin  variety. 
 Those  would  have  worked  too.  But  what  I 
 do  like  about  Sanchezia  is  they  stay 
 chunky.  They  stay  full.  See,  they  kind 
 of  move  like  this.  They'll  move  in  the 
 wind.  And  that's  what  I  love  about  them. 
 They're  just  not  a  harsh  hedge  in  any 
 sort  of  the  way.  That  also  means  if  you 
 only  have  two  of  these  guys,  there's  not 
 a  lot  of  support  system  for  them.  They 
 do  like  to  be  planted  in  a  drift  like 
 this.  They  really  really  will  connect 
 together,  become  just  a  little  sturdier. 
 They  just  do  so  well  like  that.  But  I  I 
 love  the  way  they  look.  I  love  their 
 tender,  soft,  big  giant  leaf.  And  I 
 think  that  they're  just  so  tropical.  I 
 will  put  them  and  let  them  just  kind  of 
 fall  over  top  of  my  beauty  edging.  I'm 
 not  a  big  fan  of  big  heavy  edge  lines. 
 So,  I  love  the  Beauty  Edging  for  what  it 
 does.  It's  definitely  a  fantastic 
 product.  That  composite  edging,  I  know 
 it's  here  to  stay,  but  I  also  like  it 
 interrupted  a  little bit.  I  like  more  of 
 that  natural  look.  You'll  see  all  the 
 way  through  my  walkway  space,  I've  done 
 the  same  thing  where  I've  taken  spots 
 where  you  can  distinctly  see  the  edging 
 and  it's  nice  and  clean  line.  And  then 
 I'll  blur  it  a  little  bit  with  the 
 plants,  letting  them  overhang  like  my 
 burl  marks  or  my  St.  Cheese  ear  or 
 whatnot  as  we  walk  through  the  garden 
 cuz  I  like  that  organic  mix.  On  this 
 side  of  the  garden  here,  I  have  a 
 gardinia  tree.  Of  course,  she's  done  her 
 blooming  cycles  during  Mother's  Day,  but 
 she's  still  got  some  green  on  her.  I 
 only  plant  Gardinia  trees  when  I  know 
 the  soil  is  really  good.  Her  pH  levels 
 are  a  little  bit  finicky  here  in 
 Florida.  She's  happy  here,  and  she  is 
 right  on  this  corner.  And  when  she's  in 
 bloom,  it's  like,  oo,  it  just  smells  so 
 good  out  here.  It's  a  perfect  fragrance 
 to  have  near  a  seeding  section.  So,  if 
 you're  going  to  try  one,  put  them  near 
 anywhere  the  seeding  section.  If  you 
 can't  control  the  pH  or,  you  know,  you 
 struggle  with,  you  know,  good  soil  in 
 your  area,  get  a  nice  big  low  belly  pot. 
 Something  that's  kind  of  really  wide  and 
 chunky.  It  doesn't  have  to  be  deep. 
 They're  not  deep  rooers,  but  nice  and 
 broad  and  wide,  like  a  big  bowl.  Put 
 that  girl  in  there,  and  then  make  sure 
 that  she's  got  really  good  soil  for  a 
 gardinia.  And  then  you're  going  to  have 
 a  fantastic  blooming  tree  that's  going 
 to  be  near  your  seeding  section  that  you 
 get  to  really  enjoy.  I  have  another 
 pathway  that  leaves  as  like  a  little 
 maintenance  pathway.  And  then  I  have  a 
 little  Laquala  palm.  That  Laquala  palm  I 
 have  been  babying  for  years.  They  are 
 slow  growers.  They  do  like  shade.  She 
 kind  of  can  be  a  bit  of a  diva.  They 
 can't  handle  anything  below  32.  They 
 will  really  be  upset  with  you  if  that's 
 the  case.  So  you  want  to  cover  them  or 
 put  them  in  a  pot  in  the  garden  and 
 bring  them  in  during  your  cold  snaps. 
 We've  gotten  a  little  bit  below  32.  I've 
 not  had  to  cover  because  of  all  the 
 exterior  foliage  that  I  have.  This 
 microclimate  has  done  its  own  job  of 
 really  creating  kind  of  a  cove  for  my 
 landscaping.  I  get  very,  very  little,  if 
 any,  lost  from  freezes  here  because  of 
 that.  Because  they  do  have  these  giant 
 paddle  leaves,  they  don't  like  a  lot  of 
 wind.  So,  if  you've  got  a  courtyard  or  a 
 walled  area  or,  you  know,  a  sideyard 
 where  there's  some  additional  palm  trees 
 that  are  netted  real  close.  I'll  get 
 Bryce  to  pop  in  a  picture  of  the  little 
 quala  palm  that  we  have  further  down. 
 That's  kind  of  in  a  cove  area  of  palms 
 and  it  is  grown  twice  as  fast.  The 
 fronds  are  bigger.  They  don't  have  so 
 many  rips  in  them.  It's  just  a  happier, 
 happier  tree.  So,  these  guys  are 
 fantastic  to  work  with,  but  when  they're 
 in  a  really  good  setting,  they're  the 
 showstoppers.  They're  the  things  that 
 count.  So,  make  sure  that  when  you're 
 picking  out  this  tree,  it's  not  just 
 going  somewhere  in  the  garden.  It's 
 going  in  the  perfect  spot  in  the  garden 
 because  that  is  exactly  where  they  need 
 to  go.  Right  here,  I  have  the  silver  bay 
 algeneas.  Oh  my  gosh,  some  people  call 
 them  diamond  frost.  People  call  them  the 
 Chinese  plant.  They're  just  a  fantastic 
 lowlight  plant  grouping.  Excellent  to 
 work  with.  Then,  we  get  a  little  bit  of 
 sun  in  the  afternoon.  And  I've  got 
 pentas  here.  These  are  the  pink  pentas. 
 These  guys  only  need  3  hours  of  sun  to 
 bloom.  and  they  bloom  like  crazy  in  this 
 little  spot  because  they  get  this  angled 
 and  then  later  in  the  day  they  get  this 
 corner  area  here.  So,  this  is  a  spot 
 where  I  had  a  ground  orchid  that  kept 
 burning  and  burning  and  burning.  But 
 these  guys  were  okay  because  they  were 
 protected  here.  So,  I  needed  something 
 with  some  color  here.  That's  what's 
 great  about  gardening  is  you  really  do 
 get  to  play  with  your  spots.  It  could  be 
 something  a  foot  from  another  plant.  It 
 requires  a  whole  different  look  because 
 the  amount  of  sun  that  it's  getting.  So, 
 this  is  a  pop  of  color  right  here  just 
 for  that  spot.  All  the  way  through  here. 
 All  this  craziness  that  you  see  here  is 
 creeping  fig.  If  you  guys  are  trying  to 
 naturalize  some  rocks  or  an  old  wall  or 
 even  make  a  green  wall  space,  uh 
 creeping  fig  is  perfect  for  that  because 
 it  will  stick  to  hard  surface  and  climb 
 its  way  up.  I've  got  a  mix  of  burmilads 
 here.  I've  got  some  Johannes  bmilads 
 here,  a  little  Don  Juan  burmilad  down 
 there,  a  little  red  hots  along  through 
 here.  And  here  is  a  ground  orchid  that 
 is  in  the  shade  underneath  this 
 Laquala's  big  fronds  here.  and  it's  in 
 bloom.  I  have  a  foxtail  agave  just  kind 
 of  popping  out  there.  If  you  guys  have 
 some  boulders,  use  foxtail  agave.  They 
 have  a  little  trunk  to  them  as  they  get 
 older  and  they'll  fold  over  top  of 
 boulders  and  really  kind  of  give  you 
 that  interactive  look  like  they're  just 
 coming  out  to  say  hello.  Very,  very 
 interesting.  And  they  also  once  they  get 
 that  trunk  to  them,  they  offer  uh  pups. 
 It  takes  a  while.  They  don't  pop  out 
 babies  fast,  but  once  they  do  get  that 
 trunk  to  them,  now  they  start  popping 
 out  other  babies.  And  you  can  take 
 literally  peel  those  babies  off  and 
 start  popping  them  in  between  other 
 boulders  and  really  decorating  with 
 those  guys.  They  are  the  perfect  slow 
 growing  agave.  Thornless,  very  easy  to 
 work  with  and  can  handle  more  water  than 
 most  agave.  Can  handle  sun  and  can 
 handle  shade.  They're  definitely  a  go-to 
 plant  for  me.  The  backdrop  that  I  have 
 along  my  water  feature  there,  those  are 
 all  cat  palms.  Now,  cat  palms  mature  out 
 to  around  9t  tall.  So,  they're  super 
 slow  growers,  but  they  really  I  mean, 
 those  guys  have  been  in  there  for  10 
 plus  years.  They're  starting  to  get  some 
 age  on  them,  but  they're  definitely  a 
 nice,  beautiful,  dense  wall.  And  then 
 all  the  way  to  the  back,  I  have  a  Kucia 
 hedge  that's  on  the  top  of  the  burm. 
 That's  the  builder's  Kucia  hedge  for  the 
 other  neighboring  development. 
 [Music] 
 My  favorite  palm  tree  in  my  whole 
 backyard  space,  the  Carpoxalon  palms. 
 They're  dynamic.  They're  stately. 
 They're  gorgeous.  They  are  super  slow 
 growers.  So  much  so,  apparently  I  forget 
 about  them  in  the  yard.  But  their  crown 
 shaft  is  absolutely  a  stunner.  I  hope 
 you  guys  can  see  that  on  camera.  But  if 
 you're  looking  for  one  of  those  palms, 
 maybe  an  entrance  palm  on  either  side  of 
 a  walkway  or  a  corner  of  a  house  or  a 
 feature  palm  somewhere,  they're  a  bit 
 pricey,  I  will  tell  you,  but  they  are 
 worth  their  weight  in  gold  because 
 they're  just  so  beautiful.  And  then  as 
 they  mature,  even  more  beautiful.  I 
 brought  these  guys  in  around  9  to  10 
 foot  tall.  They've  been  in  the  ground 
 for  I  would  say  about  eight  or  nine 
 years.  And  they're  really  really  just 
 taking  off.  And  I  would  say  it's  the 
 last  2  years  they've  really  shown  off 
 what  they  can  do.  Initially  they're  more 
 compact  because  they're  not  one  of  your 
 fast  growing  wild  palms.  They're  more 
 controlled.  The  canopies  are  more  tight. 
 They're  very  vertical  and  then  they  just 
 do  a  slight  bend  at  the  edge  of  the  leaf 
 like  a  curtsy.  So  I  just  think  they're 
 just  such  dulls  in  the  garden.  So,  I 
 have  two  of  them  here  and  one  at  the 
 rear  corner  of  my  garden.  I  know  that 
 this  is  not  to  everyone's  taste.  I  like 
 a  jungle  inspired  garden.  I  really  like 
 that  wild  thing,  you  know,  plant  on 
 plant.  I  do  like  a  collection  of  plants, 
 not  one  of  these  and  two  of  these  or, 
 you  know,  I  do  like  a  little  bit  more 
 dense  planting,  but  I  do  know  that  this 
 part  might  just  be  a  little  bit  too  wild 
 for  most,  but  this  is  my  jam  and  this 
 this  is  why  I  wanted  to  share  it  with 
 you.  This  is  my  personal  garden.  I've 
 got  some  sloppy  painters  mixed  into  the 
 back  there  because  sloppy  painters  need 
 no  light.  You  guys  have  a  no  light 
 situation,  but  you  need  a  little  bright 
 spot  in  the  garden.  Pick  a  sloppy 
 painter.  There's  no  light  back  there. 
 And  those  guys  pop  around  the  corner  and 
 really  spit  out  with  some  beautiful 
 bright  yellow  coloring.  Right  down 
 below,  I  have  a  row  of  aglioneas,  the 
 silver  bays  to  match  these  here.  Well, 
 the  elephant  ears  are  not  supposed  to  be 
 there.  I  planted  them  initially  before  I 
 put  the  agleneemas  in  there  and  then  I 
 was  trying  out  to  see  if  I  could  put 
 algeneemas  in  more  of  a  shade 
 environment  with  no  light.  So  that  was  a 
 test  trial  and  they're  doing  perfectly 
 fine  but  but  I  cannot  get  rid  of  the 
 dwarf  alicacia.  So  that  is  a  disclaimer 
 when  it  comes  to  dwarf  alicasia.  You  can 
 put  it  somewhere  and  then  decide  to  take 
 it  out  later  and  it's  going  to  come 
 back.  So  they  have  little  bulbs  under 
 the  ground.  They'll  pop  back  up  over 
 time  and  you'll  have  to  kind  of  relocate 
 them.  What  is  great  about  that 
 particular  plant,  if  it  happens  to  pop 
 up  again,  you  can  literally  cut  it  off 
 right  at  the  trunk  base  and  put  it 
 anywhere  else  in  your  garden  and  it'll 
 rroot  and  grow  in.  You  can  put  it  in  a 
 fountain  of  water  in  the  center  and  then 
 it'll  live  perfectly  that  way  as  well. 
 It  It'll  live  in  so  many  different 
 environments.  It's  fantastic.  It  does 
 like  filtered  light,  so  it's  going  to 
 need  some  protection  from  the  harshest 
 days  of  the  sun.  Can  handle  all  morning 
 sun,  though,  and  it's  just  a  fabulous 
 plant  to  work  with.  Unless  you're  trying 
 to  get  rid  of  it  permanently  in  a  spot, 
 cuz  that  doesn't  go  so  well.  As  you  can 
 probably  see,  I  put  elephant  ears  in 
 this  area.  Sometimes  I'll  fill  up  this 
 whole  corner  and  this  whole  corner  with 
 elephant  ears  and  let  them  live  in  the 
 water.  And  to  me,  that's  so  much  fun. 
 Just  when  I  pop  out  pups,  I  just  place 
 them  everywhere.  So,  very,  very  easy  to 
 work  with.  The  great  thing  about  having 
 a  water  feature  like  this  in  the  garden, 
 all  the  plants  in  this  environment  love 
 that  humidity,  that  constant  feed  of 
 water  that's  in  this  particular  area. 
 So,  if  you  have  a  water  feature,  put 
 some  hanging  orchids  near  it.  Really  let 
 and  unfold  your  plants  around  it.  Nestle 
 that  water  feature  because  they're  going 
 to  love  where  they  live.  This  water 
 feature  circulates  over  time.  So,  it 
 pockets  this  water  here  for  a  short 
 period  of  time.  There  is  a  big  giant 
 basin  underneath  here  that  holds  500 
 gallons  of  water  that  recirculates,  goes 
 back  up  the  pipe  and  out.  So,  this  is 
 not  a  sitting  water  situation.  It's 
 always  moving.  goes  down  into  the  basin, 
 back  up  the  pipe,  so  we  don't  have  to 
 worry  about  mosquitoes  or  any  kind  of 
 problems.  One  of  those  features  that 
 really  give  you  that  great  bit  of  sound 
 in  the  garden,  especially  if  you're 
 needing  a  little  bit  more  sound  from  a 
 very  busy  neighborhood  like  we  have. 
 Right  here,  we've  anchored  a  triple 
 spindle  palm.  Happy,  happy,  happy.  Here 
 it  is  really  unfolding.  I  was  hoping 
 that  it  would  really  go  all  the  way  over 
 the  water  feature  on  that  side  with  that 
 trunk.  Not  quite  there  yet.  They  mature 
 out  to  around  14  to  16T.  So  they  kind  of 
 overall  stay  a  smaller  palm  tree.  That's 
 why  I  wanted  it  so  close.  I  always  kind 
 of  wanted  a  a  tree  right  here  in  this 
 particular  spot  to  really  give  me  some 
 dense  coverage  from  the  seating  section. 
 And  this  girl  is  doing  it.  She  provides 
 great  shade  for  this  collection  of 
 plants.  I  have  a  Calapia  there  that  has 
 been  in  about  five  different  locations. 
 Still  not  loving  this  location.  You  can 
 see  the  little  bit  of  burn  on  her.  It's 
 a  hit  or  miss  with  that  plant.  Why  I 
 only  have  one  left.  collection  of  Rojo 
 Congos  behind  her  though,  who  have  been 
 key  key  plants  in  my  garden.  I  will  put 
 a  Rojo  Congo  anywhere  I  can.  They're 
 absolutely  stunning.  If  you  put  them  in 
 the  garden,  put  them  in  a  collection. 
 They  really  work  well  as  a  group  leaf  on 
 leaf  kind  of  planting.  They  don't  bloom, 
 but  they  have  a  gorgeous  red  stem  to 
 them  that  really  just  kind  of  adds  that 
 architectural  detail.  It's  like,  oo, 
 what's  going  on  over  there?  It's  very 
 exotic.  I  love  the  way  they  look.  So  if 
 you  have  a  spot,  you  have  a  dark  spot  in 
 your  garden,  having  a  nice  big  grouping 
 of  seven  or  eight  of  those  Rojo  Congos 
 with  maybe  some  sloppy  painters  to  the 
 back  with  maybe  a  beautiful  bit  of  Sesia 
 to  the  front  of  those.  Voila,  you  have  a 
 very  layered  tropical  garden  and  they 
 just  all  play  so  well  together.  Right 
 here  I  have  a  giant's  bird's  nest  fern 
 and  it  was  so  little  when  I  put  him  in, 
 but  look  how  big  he's  gotten.  He's 
 really  become  such  a  stunner.  So  much  so 
 that  he  is  kind  of  attaching  to  the 
 trunk  of  this  tree  and  I'm  wondering  how 
 as  this  tree  grows  will  he  become,  you 
 know,  up  here  as  this  tree  gets  to  be  14 
 foot.  That's  going  to  be  an  exciting 
 thing  to  see.  I  have  a  Rojo  Congo  that 
 has  done  that  and  I  just  think  that's 
 just  such  a  cool  thing.  As  the  tree  is 
 grown,  so  is  the  plant  grown  up  it.  So 
 bird's  nest  ferns  are  epipy,  so  they  can 
 absolutely  grow  on  tree  trunks  or  pretty 
 much  on  anything.  They  they  can  you  can 
 attach  them  in  wall  settings  and  they 
 will  root  in  and  grow  there.  They're 
 competing  a  little  bit,  but  I  really 
 think  they  have  a  happy  marriage  because 
 they're  kind  of  really  growing  in 
 together.  Right  down  below  here,  this  is 
 a  collection  of  those  foxtail  agave. 
 Little  pups  that  I've  taken  from  my 
 bigger  versions  of  the  other  foxtail 
 agave.  And  you  can  really  see  just  how 
 when  you  bunch  them  up  together,  what  a 
 cool  little  grouping  they  meet.  It's 
 like  a  big  succulent  grouping.  Right 
 here  is  a  flame  agave.  I  have  one  in  the 
 front  yard.  I'll  get  Bryce  to  pop  up  a 
 picture  of  it.  It's  gorgeous  and  big. 
 Absolutely  stunners.  Now,  the  only 
 negative  with  the  flame  agave  is  that  it 
 does  have  the  thorns  at  the  end  and  you 
 can  clip  these  guys.  You  can  clip  those 
 thorns  right  off.  You  see,  I've  done 
 that  on  some  of  the  older  ones,  but  the 
 newer  ones  will  always  come  up  with 
 thorns  where  these  guys  are  super  soft. 
 This  has  a  little  bit  of  a  silver  tone 
 to  it  where  these  guys  have  more  of  a 
 lime  chartreuse  green  to  them.  So,  a 
 nice  contrast  with  each  other.  Same  with 
 the  Imperialis  Bmilad.  Now,  this  guy  is 
 getting  baked  gorgeous  and  beautiful  the 
 most  of  the  year,  but  July  and  August, 
 those  are  the  months  of  the  year  that 
 it's  just  not  super  happy  in  the  garden 
 because  we  get  that  intense  intense 
 heat.  I  don't know  if  you  guys  can  feel 
 or  see  the  radiated  heat  coming  off  of 
 me  right  now,  but  it's  like  150  out 
 here.  It's  crazy  hot.  You  might  have  to 
 sacrifice  a  month  or  two,  but  after 
 that,  they'll  pop  back  and  be  their 
 beautiful  selves  the  rest  of  the  year. 
 So,  it  might  be  worth  it  to  you.  So,  as 
 we  get  further  and  deeper  into  this 
 section  here,  this  is  going  to  be  more 
 of  of  a  shade  garden  along  this  backside 
 and  then  more  of  a  little  bit  more  sun 
 as  we  get  to  the  middle  section.  Now,  I 
 like  to  think  of  my  backyard  garden 
 because  it  is  a  flat  space.  I  separated 
 things  like  I'd  like  to  see  them.  So, 
 over  there,  that  is  a  big  flat  front 
 face  of  the  garden  as  I'm  sitting  in  my 
 seating  section  as  my  family  and  us  are 
 enjoying  our  our  dining  over  there.  That 
 area  is  more  of  like  you  can  kind  of  see 
 everything  all  at  once  in  that 
 particular  spot.  And  then  of  course 
 around  the  water  feature,  that's  its  own 
 kind  of  garden.  That's  it.  It's  wild. 
 That's  like  like  the  jungle  just  kind  of 
 came  in  and  went  a  little  crazy  around 
 the  water  feature.  Now  this  area,  this 
 area  is  is  where  I  wanted  that  whole 
 botanical  garden  vibe  to  come  in.  I 
 wanted  as  I  walked  through  it  was  more 
 interactive.  Like  I  saw  a  lot  of 
 different  layers  in  here,  sun  and  shade 
 material,  and  that's  kind  of  what  I 
 wanted  to  see  in  this  particular  spot. 
 Back  here  we  have  some  very  old  cat 
 palms.  These  guys  were  probably  one  of 
 the  first  things  that  I  planted  back 
 here  after  my  Eureka  palms  and  coconut 
 palms.  Now,  when  you  guys  want  to  do  a 
 garden  that  is  somewhat  shaded,  but  you 
 are  on  the  east  side  of  the  property  and 
 it  gets  pretty  decent  sun  over  here,  in 
 order  to  create  that  kind  of 
 microclimate,  you're  going  to  have  to 
 create  different  layers  of  canopy  trees 
 to  offer  that  kind  of  shade  and 
 protection.  So,  it's  almost  like  you're 
 bringing  in  the  umbrellas  to  really 
 protect  your  new  plantings  from  the 
 harshness  of  the  sun.  So,  everything  on 
 the  inside  of  this  burm  area  is  going  to 
 be  more  of  a  dense  shade  planting. 
 That's  what  it's  allowed  to  go  into 
 there.  And  so,  that's  kind  of  what  we 
 have.  So,  we  have  cat  palms  in  this  area 
 to  kind  of  give  us  a  leaf  on  leaf  kind 
 of  jungle  vibe  back  there.  And  then  I 
 have  aimas,  the  silver  bays  right  here. 
 A  little  collection  of  quarter  lines. 
 These  are  the  shade  variety  of  quarter 
 lines.  There's  an  exotica  here,  a  marie 
 there,  an  exotica  to  the  back.  It  was 
 probably  a  little  bit  hard  to  see  there. 
 These  right  here,  I've  got  three  dwarf 
 ferns.  I  believe  they're  called  silver 
 ladies.  They're  kind  of  a  test  trial, 
 but  I  love  their  upright  look.  They  kind 
 of  have  that  dune  palm  look  where 
 they're  very  vertical.  They're  very  slow 
 growing,  grow  into  that  3  to  4  foot 
 range,  so  I  don't  have  to  worry  about 
 them  getting  bigger.  I  have  them  planted 
 up  and  out  this  way.  That's  why  there's 
 a  gap  here  because  I  kind  of  want  them 
 to  fall  forward.  So,  when  I'm  looking  at 
 them  from  my  seating  section,  I'm  not 
 looking  at  them  like  this.  I'm  looking 
 at  them  like  this.  And  I  think  they're 
 going  to  do  a  great  job  of  framing  this 
 tree  here,  which  is  an  Australian  tree 
 fern.  Hopefully,  he'll  get,  you  know, 
 into  that  9  10  12t  range  in  this  area. 
 And  as  he  does  it,  this  tree  will  be  a 
 couple  foot  taller.  And  then  he'll  fill 
 in  this  back  with  this  beautiful  fern 
 canopy.  I'll  ask  Bryce  to  pop  in  a 
 picture  of  what  those  guys  look  like 
 when  they're  matured.  But  what  a  stunner 
 if  I  can  have  this  kind  of  chartreuse 
 green  fern  coming  out  this  way.  What  a 
 gorgeous  look  that's  going to  be.  So, 
 this  is  what  I  was  talking  about  earlier 
 is  how  when  you're  planning  your  garden, 
 as  your  other  things  grow  up,  think 
 about  what's  next.  You  know,  what's  next 
 in  the  garden?  This  is  my  what's  next.  I 
 use  these  guys  as  the  ground  cover  to 
 the  jungle.  They're  the  perfect  bedding. 
 They're  the  perfect  weed  suppressant. 
 their  fr  or  their  leaves  are  so  big  that 
 they  can  seal  the  ground.  I  don't  have 
 to  worry  about  anything  seeing  mulch 
 down  below  other  than  this  little  spot 
 that  I've  left  open  for  the  ferns  to 
 grow  in.  See  future  planning.  But 
 everywhere  else  I  can  fill  them  and 
 birds  nest  ferns  and  congos  for  that 
 same  reason.  These  are  my  Alice  and 
 Wonderland  plants.  These  are  my  elephant 
 ears  or  aka  farfujiums.  They're  just 
 gorgeous  bringing  paddle  leaf.  They  do 
 bloom  a  lot  in  the  spring.  this  big 
 yellow  chute  with  beautiful  yellow 
 flowers,  daisy  like  flowers.  Throughout 
 the  summer  sporadically,  they'll  throw 
 out  those  big  spikes  with  those  blooms 
 on  them.  But  they're  great  for  a  little 
 collection  planting.  So,  they  kind  of 
 fold  over  top  of  the  beauty  edging  kind 
 of  like  I  like,  you  know,  how  they  do 
 and  they're  just  a  fun  touch.  I  have 
 them  in  several  other  places  in  the 
 garden,  but  if  you've  got  a  spot  that's 
 kind  of  dark  and  filtered  light,  you  can 
 put  a  whole  sea  of  these  guys  and 
 they're  just  perfect  because  they  don't 
 outgrow  each  other.  They  stay  kind  of 
 nice.  They  grow  kind  of  nice  and  even, 
 fill  each  other's  gaps,  very  supportive 
 of  one  another.  A  great  grouped  planting 
 of  the  Farfugeiums.  This  is  the  odor,  so 
 it  is  the  perennial  variety.  This  is  a 
 dark  spot  in  the  garden.  So,  I  went 
 ahead  and  chose  to  put  her  here.  She  is 
 trying  to  find  a  little  bit  of  light. 
 They'll  bloom  a  beautiful  collection  of 
 white  flowers  that  kind  of  fold  over 
 each  other.  So,  almost  like  a  little 
 firework  in  the  garden.  So,  right  on 
 this  corner,  right  around  this  boulder, 
 I  thought  that  might  be  a  really  good 
 spot  to  touch.  Now,  I  know  I  usually  say 
 don't  put  one  plant  anywhere,  but  this 
 is  this  happened  to  be  an  unusual  spot. 
 So,  I  needed  something  that  was  going  to 
 fold  over  and  do  do  a  little  bit  of 
 interest  here.  So,  a  white  beonia  is 
 great  for  filtered  light  and  offering 
 blooms.  Down  below,  we  have  a  sunny  spot 
 right  here.  These  little  girls  are  not 
 open,  unfortunately,  but  when  they  are, 
 they're  dynamic.  They're  the  pelane,  or 
 some  people  call  them  porchaka.  Um, 
 they're  a  beautiful,  beautiful  orange 
 bloom  that  blooms  nonstop.  all  summer, 
 all  spring,  into  fall.  During  the 
 winter,  you  might  have  to  cut  them  back, 
 but  they'll  flush  back  out  in  the 
 spring.  They're  a  gorgeous  plant  to  work 
 with.  And  then  right  here,  I  have  a 
 single  bottle  palm.  This  single  bottle 
 palm,  because  of  the  coconut  palm  and 
 the  triangle  palms  behind  it,  is  leaning 
 forward  to  find  the  sun.  Of  course,  it's 
 like  it's  like  a  bright  spot.  So,  I 
 think  that's  charming  because  when  I 
 walk  underneath  this  space  forever  and 
 ever,  these  two  palms  have  been  the  roof 
 line  to  this  walkway,  which  I  just  think 
 is  so  magical.  I  I  I  love  that.  I  love 
 that  look.  I  love  when  I  look  down  the 
 walkway,  these  palms  have  always,  even 
 from  a  young  age,  as  I  started  to  lean 
 out,  have  been  the  canopies  leaned  over 
 top.  So,  it's  almost  like  having  an 
 arbor  in  the  garden.  So,  I  have  those. 
 But  what  became  in  the  first  thing  that 
 I  planted  here  were  the  triangle  fan 
 palms  that  you  see  behind  us.  We  have 
 three  triangle  fan  palms.  It  is  amazing. 
 I  planted  them  all  flat,  but  you  can  see 
 how  they've  turned  towards  the  sun. 
 Those  angles.  Triangle  fan  palms.  If 
 you're  not  familiar  with  them,  they  have 
 a  silvery  green  tone  to  the  leaf.  More 
 silver  than  anything,  which  is  fabulous 
 because  they  really  just  give  you  a 
 completely  different  contrasting  look  to 
 the  other  palms.  This  one  has  three  flat 
 sides,  so  you're  able  to  have  a  fan  on 
 one  side,  or  you  can  turn  it  the  other 
 way,  have  a  fan  this  way,  and  a  tail 
 this  way.  Because  of  how  they  are,  you 
 can  really  position  them  the  way  that 
 you  want  them  to,  unless  you're  like 
 mine,  which  have  decided  just  to  do  what 
 they  want  to  do  because  they're  looking 
 for  a  specific  thing  for  themselves.  But 
 I  love  them.  They  are  old  and  they  are 
 beautiful  and  they  are  one  of the  first 
 things  that  I  would  always  see  when  I 
 come  out  in  the  garden.  Now  that  they're 
 understory  trees,  the  bottle  palms,  the 
 spindle  palms,  you  know,  all  the  new 
 palms  that  I've  put  in  has  started  to 
 grow  up,  it's  funny  how  they  become  now 
 the  backdrop  to  those  trees  and  the  new 
 landscaping  is  kind  of  coming  in  to  take 
 over  and  and  that's  what  gardens  do.  Um, 
 I  get  this  question  often,  how  close  can 
 you  plant  palm  trees  to  one  another?  And 
 you  can  absolutely  plant  them  as  close 
 as  the  fronds  will  allow  you  to  plant 
 them.  If  you're  in  good  fertile  soil, 
 you  can  see  that  I've  got  a  triangle  fan 
 palm  right  here.  And  then  two  bottle 
 palms  right  next  to  it.  And  then  I've 
 got  a  triangle  fan  palm  probably  about 
 about  9  to  10  foot  from  the  other  one  on 
 the  other  side.  So  a  center  piece,  a  9 
 to  10  foot  that  way,  9  to  10  foot  that 
 way.  And  then  you've  got  trees  that 
 close  together.  And  you'll  see  that  I 
 have  right  on  that  last  end  triangle 
 palm,  I've  got  that  triple  spindle  palm. 
 That  triple  spinnel  palm  came  in  years 
 and  years  and  years  later  because  it 
 came  in  when  the  fronds  were  below  this 
 trunk  line  and  now  it's  starting  to 
 catch  up  and  grow  up  the  tree.  But 
 literally  can  put  I  don't  know  if  Bryce 
 is  able  to  capture  that  on  camera,  but 
 we're  like  three  foot  off  of  that  tree 
 right  there.  So  you  can  see  that  this 
 tree  is  a  big  mama  jama  back  there.  It 
 is  not  affected  by  its  neighboring  tree. 
 It,  you  know,  they're  going  to  share  the 
 same  root  system.  They're  going  to  be 
 very,  very  happy.  They're  going  to  be 
 very  strong.  When  I  get  a  lot  of  clients 
 who  ask  me,  we  don't  want  anything  too 
 manicured.  We  want  that  jungle  vibe.  We 
 having  a  tree  here  and  a  tree  here  and  a 
 tree  here  and  a  little  bit  more  hairy 
 carry,  more  organic.  I  get  that  and  I 
 can  landscape  that  way.  However,  I 
 prefer  to  landscape  where  the  trees  have 
 all  structure.  This  is  your  anchor 
 trees.  These  are  your  centerpiece  trees. 
 These  are  your  smaller  dwarf  trees.  You 
 know,  like  I  have  there's  there's  like  a 
 systematic  placement  for  those  type  of 
 things.  then  you  can  get  all  crazy  and  a 
 little  bit  wild  kind  of  like  I  have  here 
 with  all  your  underplanting  trees  and  it 
 still  makes  sense.  But  if  you  have  one 
 tree  out  growing  another  tree  and  it's 
 all  wishy-washy,  it  has  a  tendency  to 
 really  get  away  from  you  because  you're 
 like,  gosh,  I  I  kind  of  feel  like 
 there's  just  a  lot  going  on  back  there. 
 But  nothing  has  more  of  that  unanimous 
 feel.  kind  of  want  your  wall  to  be  your 
 solid,  your  roof  line  to  be  nice  and 
 solid,  then  get  a  little  dicey  with  your 
 plants.  If  you  want  that  jungle  vibe, 
 you  know,  and  then  even  more  so  if  you 
 want  that  real  clean  line  vibe,  you  can 
 make  a  beautiful  thick,  dense  tree 
 canopy  and  stagger  things  like  this  and 
 then  do  more  of  the  same  type  of  plant 
 grouping  that  goes  from  one  and  then 
 another  plant  grouping  that  goes  another 
 way  that's  very  clean  line.  It  doesn't 
 have  to  be  big  leafed  and  and  jungle 
 inspired.  You  can  really  really  play 
 with  it.  But  in  both  of  those  scenarios, 
 it's  always  best  to  start  out  with  a 
 really  well-designed  tree  installation 
 first.  And  that's  what  a  landscape 
 designer  does  for  you  or  a  landscape 
 contractor  will  come  in  and  they'll  look 
 at  the  whole  space  and  say,  "Okay,  let's 
 do  the  sense  work  first,  then  bring  in 
 the  then  bring  in  the  fun,  bring  in  the 
 party.  Now,  look  at  this  little  laquala. 
 This  little  guy  I  brought  in  at  a  3 
 gallon  size,  a  teeny  tiny  little  thing. 
 And  as  you  guys  probably  know,  they're  a 
 bit  pricey,  these  little  trees.  So,  you 
 really  have  to  find  find  out  where  you 
 want  to  use  them.  Tuck  this  bad  boy 
 right  in  here.  He's  getting  very  little 
 airflow.  He's  really,  really  happy.  And 
 out  of  all  of  my  Laqualas,  and  I  have 
 four  of  them,  he's  grown  the  fastest.  He 
 was  like  this.  I  put  him  in.  I  woke  up 
 the  next  day,  and  I  mean,  literally,  it 
 was  almost  like  that.  It  was  amazing. 
 He's  outgrown  the  aglanimas  underneath. 
 He's  really,  really  happy  in  that 
 particular  spot.  I  cannot  wait  till  he 
 gets  his  9  10  foot  tall  in  this  spot  and 
 becomes  the  showstopper.  He's  also  going 
 to  lean  towards  a  little  bit  of  the  sun. 
 So,  he's  going  to  do  what  these  trees 
 are  doing,  which  is  leaning  out  this 
 way,  which  is  what  I  prefer  and  when  I'm 
 working  with  a  flat  garden.  All right, 
 so  moving  on  to  this  palm  tree.  This  is 
 a  penanga  coronada.  This  is  a  cool  new 
 palm  species  that  I  put  in  the  ground. 
 It's  been  in  the  ground  maybe  close  to  a 
 year.  It  really  taking  off  because 
 they're  supposed  to  be  slow  growers,  but 
 I  think  I've  gotten  a  good  two  foot  out 
 of  it,  which  is  very  unlikely,  but  but  I 
 did  use  a  really  good  back  fill  with 
 soil  on  this  one  cuz  I  wanted  to  make 
 sure  it  took  off.  very  very  upright, 
 very  compact.  So,  it  has  individual 
 trunks.  I  know  it's  probably  hard  to 
 see,  but  it's  almost  like  they  bouquet 
 right  in  the  middle.  And  these  fronds 
 stay  real  close  together  and  kind  of  do 
 this,  which  is  exactly  what  I  wanted.  I 
 didn't  have  all  the  room  in  the  world 
 for  fronds  to  get  like  this  cuz  I 
 already  got  that  going  on.  So,  I  wanted 
 something  that  was  a  different  a 
 contrasting  leaf.  And  when  you  guys  are 
 looking  for  your  plantings,  don't  be 
 afraid  to  do  that.  If  you've  got  one 
 leaf  that's  big  like  the  laquala,  then 
 choose  another  leaf  that's  more  linear, 
 more  more  arrowshaped,  just  jazz  it  up 
 with  different  fronds.  It  feels  like,  oh 
 my  gosh,  there's  a  lot  of  different 
 textures  laying  on  top  of  one  another, 
 which  is  what  makes  it  really  cool  and 
 interesting.  Botanical  gardens  when 
 they're  designing  for  that  space,  and 
 resorts  do  that  to  a  tea.  You'll  see 
 them  use  different  fronds  on  top  of 
 fronds  and  it'll  feel  like  there's  a  lot 
 going  on  when  there  really  isn't.  So, 
 perfect  for  courtyard  palms  or  a  small 
 planter  along  a  wall.  A  lot  of you  guys 
 will  have  those  walled  areas  where  you 
 have  like  a  3-FFT  planter.  Put  this  bad 
 boy  in  there.  They  can  handle  that  just 
 fine.  They  do  need  a  little  bit  of 
 protection  from  the  sun.  So  they,  you 
 know,  they  kind  of  want  morning  sun 
 environment  into  full  shade.  They  can 
 handle  full  shade.  This  is  a  cousin  to 
 the  lipstick  palm.  The  lipstick  palm  of 
 course  has  that  beautiful  red  stemming. 
 I  would  kill  for  a  lipstick  palm.  I 
 mean,  not  really  because  I'm  a  pacifist, 
 but  I  would  love  to  have  a  lipstick  palm 
 in  my  garden,  but  I'm  a  little  bit 
 worried  about  how  cold  we  get.  I  mean, 
 they're  they're  really  really  cold 
 sensitive  and  I  don't  have  many  more 
 room  for  pots  out  in  my  shade  gardens  to 
 the  backside.  Again,  filling  her  up  with 
 some  aglioneas.  Really  giving  her  that 
 leaf  look,  that  light  coloring.  Anytime 
 you  have  a  dark  spot  and  you  can  bring 
 in  light  green  or  a  light  variegation  in 
 tone,  it  really  shows  off  so  much  nicer. 
 And  then  I  have  the  large  leaf  chiffera. 
 This  is  the  dwarf  variety,  but  it  does 
 mound  out.  So,  normal  variegated 
 chifilera  is  more  hedgike.  This  is 
 softer,  more  flowy.  It  doesn't  It's  not 
 as  hard  stemi.  I  really  like  I  just  have 
 a  little  drift  of  those  wrapping  around 
 the  base  of  this  tree.  I  think  that'll 
 be  gorgeous  at  four  or  5t  tall.  Once 
 this  tree  gets  a  little  bit  bigger, 
 it'll  be  my  ground  planting.  This  area 
 gets  more  sun,  so  I  needed  something 
 that  could  tolerate  that.  These  guys  can 
 handle  full  sun.  Not  as  well  as  a 
 variegated  arvocaola  because  that's  a 
 tougher  plant.  But  this  has  a  similar 
 look  to  it.  A  bigger  leaf,  more 
 floppier,  but  it  can  handle  shade, 
 filtered  light,  and  full  sun  once  it's 
 adapted  with  a  little  bit  of  a  little 
 bit  of  time.  These  are  the  pink  pentas. 
 They  can  handle  some  filtered  light  and 
 some  sun.  Will  bloom  in  both  spots, 
 which  is  fabulous  for  those  little  guys. 
 These  guys  look  great  for  about  2  or  3 
 years.  Then  you  really  do  need  to  cut 
 the  pentas  back.  So  they're  in  that 
 family  line  where  they're  a  little  bit 
 longer  lived.  You're  in  your  typical  uh 
 small  flowering  perennial,  but  I  think 
 they're  worth  it.  And  then  if  it's  a 
 smaller  spot,  you  can  always  pull  them 
 out  and  replant  five  or  six  more.  So 
 moving  on,  we  have  the  quarter  lines 
 grouping.  So  we  had  one  at  the  very 
 start  on on  the  other  bottle  palm.  Now 
 we've  got  it  at  the  ending  of  this 
 bottle  palm.  And  it  is  just  a  collection 
 of  quarter  lines.  These  guys,  I  cut  back 
 the  tallest  one  every  year.  It  flushes 
 out  with  a  new  head  every  single  year  or 
 two.  So,  I'm  constantly  getting  new 
 quarter  lines  and  I'm  taking  the  old 
 ones  and  putting  them  back  in  this  sea 
 of  quarterline  collection.  And  then 
 that's  exactly  what  they  do.  They  just  I 
 cut  them,  they  keep  growing  and  they 
 produce  more  and  then  I  put  them  in 
 there.  So,  in  5  years  when  we  do  this 
 tour,  you  guys,  we're  going  to  have  like 
 a  sea  of  quarter  lines  where  I  give  them 
 away  all  the  time,  too.  So,  this  is  a 
 spot  where  I  like  it  to  get  a  little  bit 
 more  organic.  It's  feeding  over  into  the 
 walkway  right  here,  right  over  top  of  my 
 edge  lines.  So,  I  feel  like  it's  coming 
 out  into  the  walkway.  And  I'll  do  that 
 often,  especially  in  my  designs  where 
 I'll  narrow  a  space  just  to  kind  of  open 
 it  up  later  to  kind  of  give  you  not  just 
 curves  in  the  garden,  but  to  give  you 
 interest,  to  kind  of  give  you  a 
 tightening  up  and  then  opening  to  okay, 
 now  you're  seeing  it  all  and  then  you're 
 not  seeing  anything  and  then  you're 
 seeing  it  all  and  it's  whole  experience. 
 So  that's  what  these  guys  do.  So  moving 
 on,  as  we  get  further  down,  we  get  a 
 little  bit  more  light  in  this  particular 
 spot.  So  it  really  allowed  me  to  open  it 
 up  and  use.  Now,  I  could  have  used 
 something  blooming  here,  but  I  love 
 croins.  I  like  that  variegation  and 
 look,  especially  when  I  only  have  a  very 
 small  section  of  the  garden  that  I  need 
 a  almost  like  a  wow  factor.  I  need  some 
 punch.  I  need  some  I  I  need  some  impact. 
 So,  I  use  the  magnificent  Croins  here 
 for  their  variation  in  color.  Now, 
 during  the  winter  months,  they  get  more 
 burgundy  tones  to  them  with  the  yellow 
 and  the  greens.  During  the  summer 
 months,  they'll  bleach  out  a  little  bit 
 and  get  more  of  the  yellow  and  the  green 
 tones.  That's  a  fabulous  kind  of 
 combination  that  they  offer.  Down  below, 
 you'll  notice  I'll  have  a  red  sister 
 quarterline  that's  popped  out  amongst 
 the  back  side  of  the  tree.  It's  kind  of 
 carried  over  and  then  an  ginger  plant. 
 And  then  over  there  to  the  back,  we  have 
 another  Queen  Emma  with  a  bedding  of 
 aglioneas  at  the  bottom.  And  that  Rojo 
 Congo  that's  climbing  up  the  triangle 
 palm.  That's  what  I  was  meaning  earlier 
 when  I  said  some  of  these  plants  will 
 climb  right  up  the  tree.  So,  it  has 
 grown  up,  grown  with  the  tree.  As  the 
 tree  continues  to  grow,  the  Congo  is 
 growing  up  with  it,  which  is  so  funny 
 because  it  was  originally  in  the  direct 
 shade.  Now,  it's  getting  more  and  more 
 sun  as  the  tree  continues  to  grow.  So, 
 we'll  see  how  that  works  out  as  it  uh  as 
 it  continues  to  get  taller.  We  have  a 
 traveler's  palm  back  there  and  an  ora 
 palm  back  there,  as  well  as  a  coconut 
 palm  as  our  backdrop.  So  you  can  really 
 see  that  we've  got  some  good  coverage  at 
 that  back  section  of  the  garden.  And 
 then  that  leads  us  to  the  Laquala  palm. 
 Now  this  Laquala  palm  is  the  biggest  one 
 I  have  in  my  whole  garden.  It's  actually 
 in  the  perfect  spot.  It  gets  a  little 
 bit  of  wind  to  the  back  section,  but  you 
 can  really  see  it's  tucked  into  this 
 burm  into  this  buffer.  So  it  is  almost 
 like  the  little  inset  little  jewel  in 
 the  garden.  It  is  the  thing  that  I  see 
 when  I  walk  around  this  corner  the  most. 
 I  love  these  big  paddle  fronds.  See, 
 we've  got  a  nice  bedding  of  forest 
 plants  down  below.  Those  are  bird's  nest 
 ferns  and  rojo  congos  down  at  the 
 bottom.  And  I  love  that,  you  guys, 
 because  I  I  don't  want  to  see  mulch  at 
 the  bottom.  I  don't  want  to  remulch.  I 
 never  remulch  this  area.  My  ground  cover 
 now  is  the  ground  forest,  the  ground 
 floor  is  all  planting.  So,  that's 
 exactly  what  happens.  I  did  forget  about 
 my  white  lady  here.  I  don't  know  how  I 
 forgot  about  her.  She  literally  glows  at 
 night  in  the  garden.  I  love  her  right 
 here.  Here  I  see  her  from  my  seating 
 section.  She's  absolutely  stunning.  It 
 was  a  marketplace  find.  Just  she's 
 nestled  in  the  forest  plants  here.  One 
 heart-shaped  ficus  to  see  how  well  it 
 does  in  this  this  type  of  lighting 
 situation.  It's  doing  fantastic.  It's 
 growing  super  super  slow.  So,  if  you  get 
 that  collection,  make  sure  that  you  have 
 plenty  of  time  for  it  to  mature  out. 
 They're  such  a  unique  look  in  the 
 garden.  They  can  handle  really  deep 
 shade  and  keep  that  white  and  green 
 leaf.  So,  if  you  need  like  a  blast  of 
 something,  don't  do  one  like  I  did.  Do 
 make  sure  you  do  eight  or  nine  and  one 
 collection  and  that  you're  going  to  get 
 that  nice  dollop  of  color,  then  you  can 
 do  some  greens  around  it  to  really 
 showcase  that  white  and  green  of  those 
 guys.  Speaking  of  showcasing,  this 
 dumpane  plant  is  fabulous  right  here.  It 
 has  been  such  a  stunner.  It's  getting  a 
 little  bit  too  big  for  this  spot.  This 
 is  meant  to  be  as  a  backdrop  planting.  I 
 wanted  to  see  if  it  could  take  more  sun 
 and  this  is  the  spot  that  it  seemed  to 
 really  like  so  I'm  probably  going  to 
 keep  it  here.  Next  year  I  might  relocate 
 it.  So  far  it's  done  well.  It's  had  a 
 lot  of  water.  It's  had  a  little  bit  of 
 water.  I've  had  water  2  days  a  week  and 
 it's  had  water  4  days  4  to  5  days  a  week 
 and  it's  done  well  in  both  situations. 
 It's  a  very  very  tough  plant  overall. 
 Great  for  pots.  They  don't  like  full 
 full  sun.  So  they  like  this  kind  of 
 environment  where  they'll  get  few  hours 
 of  afternoon  sun  and  then  that's  that. 
 right  here  as  our  backdrop.  These  are 
 old  mama  jama  Europeans.  The  double 
 European  fan  palm.  I  brought  it  in  years 
 ago.  It  has  grown  exceptionally  slow, 
 maybe  5,  6  in  a  year  at  most.  I  just 
 love  that  it  is  a  completely  different 
 texture  of  frond  than  every  other  frond 
 that  I  have  in  the  garden.  It's  very 
 weepy,  very  lacy,  great  movement.  And 
 it's  not  very  stiff  in  the  garden.  When 
 we  get  storms,  rains  out  here  and  we're 
 we  sit  out  a  lot  when  it's  nice  and 
 breezy  like  that.  It's  like  it's  got 
 loose  hair  flowing  in  the  garden.  It's 
 just  fabulous.  So,  European  fan  palms  I 
 know  get  sometimes  a  bad  rap  of  being 
 just  a  a  very  slow  growing  small  tree 
 and  and  that  they  are  that  does  take 
 them  a  long  time  to  get  any  size.  That 
 can  be  a  pro  and  it  can  be  a  con,  but 
 for  me  it  can  be  a  pro  because  it  means 
 it  can  fit  in  a  tight  spot  for  a  very 
 long  period  of  time.  I'm  I'm  talking  20 
 years  into  a  small  space  before  it  gets 
 oversized  for  that  particular  area. 
 They're  also  great  because  they're  going 
 to  really  protect  what's  underneath  of 
 it.  Like  these  Lady  Claire  Croins,  they 
 do  not  like  full  sun,  but  you  can  see 
 the  ones  that  get  more  sun  have  that 
 brighter  tone  and  leaf  color.  The  ones 
 to  the  back  that  are  down  there  filling 
 up  the  bottom  base  of  that  European  fan 
 palm  have  the  darker  green  leaf  and  a 
 little  speckled  bit  of  color.  And  then 
 during  the  winter,  that  yellow  turns 
 more  white.  So  you  get  that  white  and 
 green  back  here,  which  is  exactly  what 
 I'm  looking  for  when  I  have  a  big 
 balance  of  something  like  this  where  I 
 have  the  burl  marks  where  these  burl 
 marks  just  drape  over  this  edge.  I  just 
 think  that  it's  just  such  a  little 
 masterpiece  when  I'm  looking  down  the 
 garden  like  this.  Having  them  kind  of 
 flow  over,  it's  just  so  so  super 
 stunning.  Put  them  in  a  little 
 collection  like  a  little  swath.  Now,  you 
 can  pretty  much  draw  with  these  guys. 
 You  can  curve  them  this  way  in  a  garden. 
 You  can  just  do  a  little  a  little 
 collection  of  maybe  five  or  six  kind  of 
 framing  something.  They're  great  for 
 that.  This  shiny  kind  of  arrowhead  leaf 
 is  such  a  slow  growing  plant.  It  will  if 
 you  have  time  and  you  train  it  up  a 
 tree,  if  you  like  that  kind  of  look 
 where  it'll  go  straight  up  a  tree,  it 
 absolutely  will.  However,  it  won't 
 naturally  want  to  do  that  unless  it's 
 incredibly  old.  So,  it's  just  one  of 
 those  things  you'll  have  to  train  it  if 
 you  want  it  to  do  that.  But  I  do  like 
 them  here  like  a  skirt  planting  because 
 you  can  easily  keep  them  around  this 
 twoft  height  to  threeft  height.  And  then 
 I  have  one  carpaloxin  palm  right  here.  I 
 squeezed  him  in  here.  It  was  had  no 
 sense  of  being  in  this  particular  spot, 
 but  there  was  one  left  in  a  in  at  the 
 nursery  and  so  I  wanted  one  more  and 
 popped  him  in  here.  So  he  is  fighting 
 off  some  of  the  other  trees,  but 
 definitely  a  tree  that  I  love  so  much  I 
 wanted  to  find  a  spot  for.  Right  here  we 
 have  a  double  trunked  hurricane  palm. 
 And  I'm  sure  you  guys  by  now  can  guess 
 why  I  put  him  on  the  corner  just  like 
 the  other  double  bottle  palm.  Just 
 because  these  fronds  are  going  to  hang 
 over  here  as  I  sit  here  in  my  chair, 
 have  my  coffee.  This  is  just  such  a 
 great  spot.  This  is  the  shady  spot  in 
 the  garden.  This  is  the  coolest  spot  in 
 the  garden.  We  get  this  breeze  that 
 comes  this  way.  And  I  know  that  people 
 are  like,  "Do  you  ever  sit  there?"  I  can 
 promise  you  I  sit  here.  My  husband  sits 
 here.  I'm  working  out  in  the  garden. 
 This  is  the  place  that  I  sit  to  collect 
 my  thoughts  or  find  whatever  podcast  I 
 want  to  listen  to  on  my  phone  before  I 
 get  started  back  out  in  the  garden.  I 
 thought,  honestly,  I  would  only  sit  here 
 when  this  variegated  jasmine  behind  me 
 would  go  into  bloom,  but  I  find  myself 
 sitting  here  even  in  the  hottest  times 
 of  the  year.  So,  I  think  that  when  that 
 goes  into  bloom,  it's  going  to  be  just  a 
 bonus.  I'll  just  be  getting  that  great 
 fragrance.  And  just  like  I  mentioned 
 with  the  Gardinia,  anytime  that  you  have 
 a  seating  section,  if  you  can  pop 
 something  in  there  that's  going  to  give 
 you  that  fragrance  to  dial  up  your 
 senses,  it's  almost  like  you've 
 transported  yourself  out  of  a  suburban 
 yard,  out  of  a  neighborhood,  out  of  busy 
 lawnmowers  and  all  the  things  that  go 
 on,  pool  guys  and  all  that  stuff  that 
 are  popping  around  your  neighborhood, 
 but  into  your  own  private  resort. 
 Something  that  you've  been  a  part  of 
 creating,  something  you've  been  a  part 
 of  maintaining,  something  that  you've 
 seen  kind  of  unfold  and  grow  up.  That's 
 the  magic  of  gardening  and  that's  the 
 bug  that  is  scary  to  get.  So  be  careful 
 because  it's  just  the  beginning.  And  if 
 this  is  your  vibe,  if  this  is  your 
 thing,  then  you  guys,  I  am  so  proud.  I'm 
 going  to  proud  mom.  Bryce  did  a  video 
 that  kind  of  shares  with  you  guys  how  to 
 set  up  a  backyard  garden  space.  It's 
 pretty  much  a  how-to.  The  way  he  does  it 
 on  his  computer  program,  he  kind  of 
 shows  how  to  create  a  private  backyard. 
 I  will  link  that  video  down  below.  For 
 you  true  gardeners,  if  you  wouldn't  mind 
 sharing  the  love  and  checking  out  my 
 son's  video,  that  would  be  super  super 
 cool.  Thank  you  so  much.  I  will  see  you 
 guys  next  weekend.

---

 Wow,  awesome  landscape. 
 >> Well,  yeah.  10  palm  trees  in  a  small 
 front  yard.  It's  amazing  how  many 
 different  varieties  that  you  can  get 
 into  an  average  typical  suburban  front 
 yard  to  make  it  super  super  interesting. 
 Why  go  with  the  same  palm  tree  on  every 
 corner  of  the  house  and  to  the  front 
 along  the  driveway  when  you  can  do  10 
 different  varieties?  I  don't  mean  just 
 10  palm  trees.  I  mean  10  different 
 varieties  to  really  give  you  that 
 tropical  look.  Come  on  you  guys,  we're 
 going to  take  a  quick  tour. 
 So,  the  first  showpiece  tree  is  the 
 Kentopsis.  So,  if  you  guys  are  new  to 
 Florida,  you  may  have  not  seen  this 
 palm.  It  is  getting  big  in  popularity 
 right  now.  I'm  seeing  it  more  and  more 
 on  different  projects,  different 
 construction  entrances  because  of  the 
 showpiece  that  it  is.  This  is  a 
 beautiful  palm.  Has  a  gorgeous  upright 
 frrawn.  I  mean,  look  at  this  frond 
 compared  to  me.  I  mean,  it  is  just  so 
 wide,  so  broad,  so  dynamic,  and  gives 
 you  such  a  vertical  pop  in  the  garden. 
 This  tree  has  a  very  small  base  and 
 that's  what's  great  about  it.  Kind  of 
 gives  you  a  lot  of  bang  for  your  buck 
 when  it  comes  to  this  kind  of  tree 
 because  you  get  so  much  coverage,  so 
 much  impact  with  a  fairly  small  tree. 
 Does  grow  super  slow.  So,  this  tree  will 
 be  like  a  foxtail  palm.  It  will  grow 
 into  about  the  20  to  24  foot  range, 
 somewhere  in  that  range  depending  on 
 your  soil  types.  But,  it  will  do  that  at 
 a  very  slow  rate.  So,  if  you've  got  a 
 spot  that  you  don't  want  a  tree  to  get 
 too  big  or  you  have  a  long  time  for  it 
 to  get  some  size  to  it,  a  kentopsis  is  a 
 great  anchoring  palm  tree.  You  can  use 
 it  as  a  centerpiece.  You  can  use  it  as  a 
 corner  anchor.  Both  of  those  are  great 
 ways.  We've  also  used  it  over  here.  If 
 you  show  everybody,  Bryce,  right  along 
 the  driveway.  I  mean,  just  look  how 
 gorgeous  and  vertical  they  look  against 
 your  typical  foxtail  palm  there.  I  love 
 palm  alleys.  If  you  can  and  it  works 
 well  with  your  type  of  landscape  and  you 
 guys  like  the  look  of  flanking  your 
 driveway  with  palms,  ideal.  I  even  like 
 it  more  when  you  only  do  one  side  of  the 
 driveway  that  way.  We  needed  some  weight 
 over  on  that  side.  We  have a  septic  tank 
 on  the  opposite  side  over  there.  So,  we 
 need  to  kind  of  stay  nice  and  close  to 
 the  driveway.  But,  when  looking  at  this 
 house  from  the  road,  it  it's  so 
 lopsided.  There's  a  lot  of  heavy  weight 
 over  on  this  side  of  the  yard  and 
 nothing  really  going  on  on  that  side  of 
 the  yard.  So,  what  we  wanted  to  do  was 
 kind  of  create  some  visual  weight  by 
 kind  of  creating  a  palm  alley.  We  have 
 three  kentopsis  palms,  nice  and 
 vertical,  starting  with  small,  then  a 
 tall  fox  tail,  small  kiosis,  tall 
 foxtail,  small.  Well,  you  get  the  point, 
 right?  It  really  is  going  to  do  a  nice 
 job  of  giving  them  a  really  vertical 
 layered  feel,  almost  kind  of  giving  you 
 that  grand  entrance  kind  of  style.  So, 
 don't  be  afraid  to  mix  them  with  foxtail 
 palms,  with  royal  palms,  with  anything 
 that's  vertical  and  upright  because 
 they're  never  going  to  compete  with 
 that.  They're  never  going  to  go  the  same 
 size.  They're  really  going  to  go  above 
 here  with  the  foxtail  and  the  kentopsis 
 is  going to  be  a  different  type  of 
 vertical  palm.  When  it  gets  large,  those 
 two  canopies  themselves  won't  compete 
 with  each  other  because  the  kiopsis 
 frond  is  so  different  than  the  foxtail 
 that  it's  going  to  be  even  more 
 beautiful  as  it  gets  large.  It's  not 
 going  to  be  like  a  row,  row,  row,  row 
 kind  of  a  boring  look  for  palm  trees. 
 It's  always  going  to  remain  a  vertical 
 palm  with  a  very  fuzzy  fluffy  foxtail 
 kind  of  top.  And  then  the  Kentopsis  is 
 going  to  have  that  dynamic  that  really 
 like  aggressive  kind  of  frrawn  like 
 this.  So  no  matter  what  size  or  what  age 
 they're  going  to  be,  they're  always 
 going  to  be  stunners  in  the  front.  So 
 the  Kentopsis  is  the  first  palm  on 
 today's  list.  You  guys  know  how  much  I 
 love  the  foxtail  palms.  I  just  think 
 that  beefy  big  trunk  on  them  is  going  to 
 be  stunners  no matter  where  you  have 
 them.  We  have  a  single  foxtail  here  and 
 we  also  right  behind  you  Bryce  have  a 
 double  foxtail  in  the  front  island 
 there.  So,  that  is  going  to  be  gorgeous 
 as  it  opens  up  and  becomes  a  bigger, 
 wider  tree  there. 
 So,  as  for  our  third  palm  on  the  list, 
 Bryce,  if  you  back  up  a  little  bit,  then 
 you'll  get  this  whole  big  old  mama  jama 
 in  here.  This  is  the  triple  Christmas 
 palm.  Now,  we  inherited  this  palm.  It 
 came  with  the  landscaping,  but  it  is 
 going  to  look  completely  different  with 
 the  new  garden  style.  So,  it  is 
 obviously  the  centerpiece.  I  love  the 
 way  Christmas  palms  offer  you  a  lot  of 
 trunks,  so  they  don't  really  take  up  a 
 lot  of  weight  in  the  front  of  the  house. 
 This  tree  will  stop  growing  just  as  it 
 gets  to  the  gutter  line.  So,  that's 
 what's  great.  It's  going  to  have  nothing 
 but  long  legs  and  then  right  at  the  top 
 of  the  roof  line,  right  when  you  get  to 
 that  gutter  line  and  roof  line,  it's 
 going  to  do  that  crowning  shape.  So,  it 
 is  going  to  be  that  tree  that's  going  to 
 stop  growing  exactly  where  it  was 
 supposed  to  stop  growing,  which  is  nice 
 when  they're  they  do  what  they're  told. 
 So,  as  for  our  fourth  palm  today,  now 
 these  guys  are  babies,  so  they're  not  as 
 big  as  the  other  guys,  but  we  have  got 
 the  rafus  palms,  the  lady  palms.  These 
 girls  just,  you  guys,  look  at  these 
 fronds  on  these  things.  I  just  love 
 these  multi-fingered  fronds  like  this. 
 They  have  a  lot  of  movement  in  the 
 garden.  My  client's  going  to  let  them 
 get  around  the  sixoot  height,  so  they're 
 going  to  have  a  kind  of  an  anchor  point 
 on  either  side  of  this  Christmas  palm. 
 And  I  really  love  that  the  Christmas 
 palm  allowed  us  to  put  some  weighted 
 palm  trees  on  either  side  of  it  because 
 what  happens  when  you  have  tall,  long 
 legs  of  a  tree,  you  have  all  that 
 opening,  all  of  that  airy  open  feel, 
 which  allows  you  to  put  something  chunky 
 and  fat  on  either  sides  to  almost  like 
 frame  it.  And  that's  exactly  what  these 
 two  rafus  palms  are  going  to  do.  Now, 
 raphus  palms  are  going to  come  with  a 
 disclaimer.  They  are  fabulous  little 
 chunky  trees.  They  really  are  easy  to 
 stay  compact.  However,  twice  a  year, 
 they're  going  to  want  to  pop  up  little 
 pups  to  widen  out  to  get  a  little  bit 
 bigger  because  that's  how  they  travel. 
 You're  going to  want  to  come  out  and 
 just  kind  of  clip  off  the  ones  that  you 
 don't  want.  So,  any  pups  that  might  kind 
 of  come  outside  that  little  center 
 bouquet  of  the  rais  palm,  you're  going 
 to  just  want  to  clip  that  out.  And  you 
 can  either  hit  it  with  the  shovel  and 
 pop  it  out  or  you  can  clip  it  out.  There 
 is  a  little  maintenance  required  on 
 those,  but  it's  so  hard  to  find  a 
 perfect  dwarfed  palm  tree  to  do  kind  of 
 the  job  that  they  do.  So,  I  think  that 
 that's  worth  the  effort.  And  for  our 
 fifth  tree  today  is  the  Sylvester  Palm. 
 Oh  my  goodness,  you  guys.  This  Sylvester 
 palm,  another  tree  we  inherited,  but  fit 
 super  well  into  this  landscape.  Now, 
 when  I  first  got  here,  it  was  the 
 biggest  thing  in  the  in  the  yard.  It  was 
 like,  wow.  There  was  a  bunch  of  smaller 
 intermediate  plants  going  on,  but  there 
 was  nothing  to  kind  of  give  us  some 
 balance.  And  I  think  bringing  in  the 
 other  palms,  bringing  in  the  accents, 
 bringing  in  the  intermediate  levels  is 
 going  to  offer  it  the  perfect  bit  of 
 balance.  So,  we  brought  in  some  big  bush 
 plantings  to  go  around  it  to  kind  of 
 engulf  the  base  of  that  trunk  of  that 
 existing  old  tree.  And  then  you're  going 
 to  really  get  to  show  off  that  canopy. 
 Now,  Sylvester  Palms,  they  come  with  a 
 bit  of  disclaimer.  They  are  absolutely 
 gorgeous,  but  there  is  a  disease  going 
 around,  so  you're  going  to  want  to  get 
 with  a  proper  pest  control  company  to 
 treat  it.  You  know,  usually  a  couple 
 times  a  year  and  make  sure  that  it  stays 
 nice  and  healthy.  It  is  not  one  that  I 
 am  currently  planting,  but  it  is  a  fan 
 favorite  of  a  lot  of  people's  just 
 because  of  there's  not  many  trees. 
 There's  not  many  one  tree  that  offers  as 
 much  punch  as  a  Sylvester  palm.  So,  I 
 think  that  it's  definitely  worth 
 mentioning  as  one  of  our  10  palms  here 
 today,  even  though  that  we  inherited  it 
 in  the  landscape.  So,  we're  going  to 
 work  with  that  bad  boy  and  get  it  to 
 become  a  nestled  part  of  this  new 
 landscaping  here.  All right,  you  guys. 
 So,  for  number  six  on  our  favorite  palm 
 list  is  the  King  Alexander.  Some  would 
 say  the  king  of  palms.  Maybe  I  say  that 
 because  I  love  the  King  Alexander.  Now, 
 this  guy  was  just  planted  a  few  days 
 ago.  We  have  had  extraordinary  heat.  So, 
 all  of  these  palms  are  showing  a  little 
 bit  of  stress.  And  maybe  that's 
 something  I  should  put  in  as  a  secondary 
 or  third  disclaimer  in  today's  video  is 
 that  if  you  guys  can  avoid  planting  in 
 the  month  of  July,  early  August,  that  is 
 a  tough  time  to  keep  things  watered.  We 
 are  trying  our  hardest  to  keep  the 
 plantings  watered.  But  it's,  you  know, 
 it's  a  tough  time.  So  if  you  guys  want 
 to  make  it  a  little  easier  on 
 yourselves,  then  hit  late  September, 
 early  October,  ideal  times  to  plant.  The 
 benefit  of  planting  right  now  is  when  we 
 get  those  rainstorms.  It  is  it  is  just  a 
 masterpiece.  It  is  exactly  what  these 
 plants  and  trees  will  need.  And  I  know 
 Florida  plants  and  trees,  they're  going 
 to  bounce  back  even  after  the  stress  of 
 the  heat.  Kind  of  look  past  some  of  the 
 browning  of  the  fronds.  This  girl  will 
 throw  out  new  fronds  in  a  matter  of 
 days.  She's  really  already  got  some  new 
 fronds  coming  in.  And  absolutely  a 
 stunner.  You  really  get  a  beautiful  tree 
 when  it  comes  to  a  King  Alexander.  They 
 come  in  singles,  doubles,  triples, 
 quads.  My  favorite  favorite  of  all  is 
 the  double  because  you  can  pretty  much 
 put  it  on  any  flat  surface.  I  love 
 putting  them  in  front  of  windows  just 
 like  this  because  they  have  that 
 gorgeous  Vshape  and  really  kind  of  give 
 you  that  dynamic  frond.  They  have  a 
 super  long  frond  as  they  get  older.  This 
 tree  is  still  somewhat  young,  but  as 
 this  frond  gets  older,  it's  going  to 
 come  over  into  this  range,  you  guys.  So, 
 it  is  going  to  be  like  a  why  welcome 
 kind  of  palm  at  your  front  entrance.  And 
 you  know,  I  just  think  there's  such  a 
 clean  palm.  This  is  a  self-cleaning 
 palm.  So,  when  a  new  frond  comes  out, 
 the  canopy  gets  full,  it'll  drop  its  old 
 frond.  So,  no  work  when  it  comes  to  the 
 King  Alexanders,  which  is  nice. 
 Absolutely  love  to  use  these  palms  in  my 
 design  as  kind  of  intermediate  trees. 
 They're  not  as  big  and  beefy  as  a 
 foxtail.  You  can  actually  take  one  of 
 these  here  and  if  there  was  room  over  on 
 this  corner,  say  these  pavers  weren't 
 here  and  this  was  landscaping.  You  could 
 put  a  foxtail  right  here  to  anchor  this. 
 A  foxtail  is  going  to  outgrow  the  King 
 Alexander.  This  is  naturally  going  to  be 
 more  of  a  petite  tree.  So  this  is  almost 
 like  an  assistant  to  the  big  foxtail 
 palm  and  super  assistant  to  the  royal 
 palm  or  a  sylvester  palm.  So  you  can 
 really  kind  of  use  this  palm  as  a  medium 
 type  of  palm  in  the  landscape  cuz  it's 
 not  too  aggressive,  but  it  does 
 definitely  show  off  with  its  frond 
 canopy.  All right,  for  our  next  palm 
 grouping  is  going  to  be  the  mule  palm. 
 So  this  is  a  young  mule  palm.  Absolutely 
 a  perfect  tree  for  this  spot.  Now,  a 
 mule  palm,  for  those  of  you  guys,  this 
 may  be  a  new  palm  for  you,  is  a 
 mishmash.  It's  a  pairing  of  a  pendo  palm 
 and  a  queen  palm.  So,  for  those  of  you 
 guys  who  are  up  north  a  bit  into  the 
 Orlando,  Jacksonville  area,  this  palm  is 
 a  gorgeous,  gorgeous,  gorgeous  statement 
 piece  palm  that  works  really  well.  This 
 guy  is  fairly  new.  I'll  get  Bryce  to  pop 
 in  a  picture  of  a  a  mule  palm  fully 
 matured,  so  you  can  really  see  just  how 
 interesting  those  fronds,  how  upright 
 those  fronds  are.  It  grows  super  slow. 
 So,  this  would  be  like  an  intermediate 
 tree  or  an  island  tree.  So,  if  you  had 
 somewhere  out  in  the  yard  and  you  needed 
 kind  of  like  a  centerpiece,  kind  of  like 
 a  fountain  popping  up  out  of  the  middle 
 of  it,  a  mule  palm  is  an  ideal  palm  to 
 use.  You  can  bring  it  in  at  7  gallon 
 size,  15  gallon  size.  You  can  really 
 work  with  it  in  any  size,  which  is  ideal 
 for  these  guys.  As  long  as  you  have  time 
 for  it  to  grow,  it  does  take  some  time. 
 It's  a  slow  growing  palm.  You're  maybe 
 going  to  get  a  foot  a  year  out  of  it  at 
 best,  especially  because  a  lot  of  times 
 these  these  palms  are  planted  in  the 
 northern  climates.  And  in  the  northern 
 climates,  things  grow  just  a  tad  bit 
 slower  than  they  grow  on  our  Treasure 
 Coast  or  Space  Coast  area.  So,  this  is  a 
 great  palm  to  work  with.  If  you  guys 
 love  that  kind  of  dynamic  upright  frond 
 look  that  kind  of  weeps  down,  that 
 really  kind  of  folds  down.  It's  a  great 
 palm  of  choice.  So,  try  out  the  mule 
 palm.  But  palm  this,  palm  that,  here 
 comes  the  coconut  palm.  more  common 
 palm,  a  fun  palm  to  work  with,  a  palm 
 you  can  kind  of  put  just  about  anywhere. 
 And  that's  where  this  guy  is.  My  clients 
 brought  this  in  as  a  baby  palm.  And 
 they're  like,  should  we  take  it  out? 
 Should  we  leave  it?  Should  we  make  a  bed 
 around  it?  And  I'm  like,  I  think  she's 
 working  well  with  all  the  other  palm 
 choices.  And  considering  that  brings  us 
 to  10  palms  in  a  front  yard,  absolutely. 
 Maybe  add  another  coconut  palm  in  here 
 to  pair  it  with.  But  I  think  they're 
 gorgeous.  They're  fun.  They're  fast 
 growing  trees.  This  is  a  Malayan  coconut 
 palm  and  it's  really  going  to  take  off 
 and  kind  of  be  a  cool  feature.  It's 
 already  starting  to  bend.  I'm  hoping 
 that  it'll  bend  even  more  because 
 that'll  make  it  even  more  interesting, 
 especially  in  this  open  area.  They  can 
 pop  out  a  little  bed  around  it,  put  a 
 little  bit  of  the  same  kind  of  flowering 
 material  that  we  have  in  the  other  areas 
 of  the  new  landscapes.  And  voila,  it 
 looks  like  it  belongs  here.  So,  if  you 
 guys  are  not  familiar  with  the  Malayan 
 coconut  versus  some  of  the  other  coconut 
 options,  and  you  guys  kind  of  want  a 
 palm  that's  going  to  grow  a  little  bit 
 slower,  stay  a  little  bit  more  compact, 
 but  produce  coconuts  just  as  fast,  if 
 not  faster,  then  the  Malayan  might  be 
 the  coconut  palm  for  you.  The  trunk 
 stays  a  little  bit  chunky,  cut  a  little 
 bit  smaller.  The  canopy  obviously 
 overall  a  little  bit  smaller,  but  it 
 does  really  kind  of  really  kind  of  hold 
 their  size.  But  overall,  the  Malayan  is 
 one  of  my  favorites  because  it  does  take 
 a  good  deal  of  time  for  it  to  get  any 
 significant  size.  And  that's  always  what 
 we're  looking  for  in  Florida.  Anytime 
 that  we  can  find  a  palm  tree  that  is 
 going  to  grow  a  little  bit  slower, 
 that's  really  going  to  kind  of  stay  in 
 our  view  line  at  a  lower  palm  frron 
 where  you  get  all  those  gorgeous  fronds 
 at  a  smaller  rate  and  a  slower  rate, 
 then  I  think  it  is  just  a  winner  winner 
 chicken  dinner  in  my  palm  category.  All 
 right,  you  guys.  So,  let's  jump  into  the 
 last  two  palms.  But  wait  for  the  last 
 one  because  that  is  not  your  typical 
 palm  in  the  garden.  And  I  think  it's 
 becoming  one  of  my  favorite  palms  to 
 work  with.  I  say  that  all  the  time.  All 
 right,  guys.  So,  we  are  on  to  the  next 
 island  right  here  in  the  front  for  our 
 ninth  palm  tree  in  this  grouping. 
 >> Wow.  Awesome  landscape. 
 >> Look  at  Derek.  This  is  Derek,  our 
 homeowner,  who  has  been  fabulous  to  work 
 with.  He  has  been  a  part  of  this  from 
 the  very  beginning,  as  well  as  his  wife, 
 Kate.  However,  Kate  is  ducking  behind 
 the  camera.  We  won't  we  won't  turn  the 
 camera  if  she  says  hello.  You  guys,  I 
 promise  you  I'm  going  to  have  you  back 
 for  a  full  garden  tour  after  everything 
 gets  in  and  everything  gets  established 
 and  really  starts  to  perk  up  after  this 
 summer  heat.  And  I  promise  you,  you're 
 going to  enjoy  it  just  as  much. 
 >> Yeah, 
 >> there  we  go.  So,  for  the  next  palm  on 
 the  list  is  the  pygmy  date  palm.  Now, 
 she's  in  a  bit  of  a  wardrobe  change. 
 She's  still  tied  up  because  if  you  guys 
 know  of  a  pygmy  date  palm,  you  know  that 
 they  have  these  beautiful  trunks,  nice 
 feathery  fronds,  but  the  worst  manners 
 when  it  comes  to  these  thorns.  These 
 thorns  are  nobody's  business.  So,  my 
 guys  leave  them  tied  up  until  all  the 
 mulching,  all  the  trim  work,  everything 
 is  done  around  them.  And  then  they  cut 
 these  bad  boys  loose  and  let  them  fold 
 over.  They  will  be  a  nice  almost  like  a 
 little  bush  palm  and  they  turn  into  a 
 big  kind  of  frond  bush  palm.  And  that's 
 what  I  love  about  them.  They  stay 
 compact.  They  grow  fairly  slow.  They're 
 definitely  your  understoried  palm  tree. 
 So,  they're  great  to  kind  of  give  some 
 under  canopy  height  to  your  big  palms 
 like  your  foxtails,  your  coconuts,  your 
 queens,  anything  that's  going  to  be  big 
 and  more  trunk  than  it  is  frrawn.  These 
 guys  are  going  to  offer  you  more  fr  and 
 very  little  trunk,  which  is  ideal.  And  I 
 think  they  definitely  have  their  place. 
 I'm  sorry  that  she's  she's  a  little 
 underdressed  for  this  video  today,  but  I 
 know  you  guys  would  understand  your 
 gardeners,  but  this  is  a  great  palm  tree 
 to  use,  and  you  can  almost  sneak  them  in 
 just  about  anywhere,  no matter  how  small 
 your  yard  is.  They  grow  to  10  to  12t. 
 The  trunks  stay  nice  and  chunky  and 
 broad  and  widen  out.  What's  great  about 
 these  palms,  if  you're  looking  for  a 
 little  bit  of  buffering,  they're  an 
 ideal  palm  to  use.  So,  if  you  need  to 
 use  them  in  a  straight  line  along  the 
 side  of  your  house,  they'll  give  you 
 about  6  foot  of  frrawn  coverage  and  then 
 you'll  have  about  3  or  4  foot  at  the 
 bottom  depending  on  the  size  of  your 
 palm  tree  of  clear  trunk.  That's  the 
 perfect  place  to  layer  in  front  of  them 
 with  some  beautiful  plants.  And  then 
 you've  got  a  beautiful  plant  grouping 
 and  then  a  frond  a  solid  frond  canopy. 
 And  that  frond  canopy  is  going  to  be 
 great  because  you  only  trim  them  about 
 two  times  a  year,  unlike  a  hedge  where 
 you  have  to  trim  and  maintain  that  hedge 
 consistently  throughout  the  year. 
 They're  kind  of  more  in  that  low 
 maintenance  if  you  don't  mind  those 
 little  thorns  there.  So,  I  definitely 
 think  they're  a  go-to  palm  for  your 
 Florida  palm  plantings.  Now,  off  to  the 
 last  one.  Those  of  you  guys  in  the 
 comments  who  are  getting  ready  to  scream 
 at  me  and  say,  "This  is  not  a  palm."  It 
 is  not  a  palm,  but  it  is  called  a  palm. 
 And  that's  why  it's  part  of  our  palm 
 species  today  because  it  is  the  faux 
 palm.  the  fake  palm,  the  just  the  the 
 gorgeous  tall  vertical  palm  that  should 
 be  classified  as  a  palm  just  because  of 
 its  utter  toughness.  This  is  the  dune 
 palm.  This  is  very  similar  to  the  king 
 sego  palm,  but  it's  tougher.  It  resists 
 the  scale  a  heck  of  a  lot  more.  Very, 
 very  low  maintenance.  You  do  just  a 
 little  bit  of  trimming  on  these  outside 
 fros  two  times  a  year,  maybe  three  if 
 you  want  to  keep  it  real,  real  vertical. 
 It  grows  about  3  foot  taller  than  what 
 you  see  here  and  then  stops  which  is 
 ideal  because  it's  the  perfect 
 centerpiece.  Does  this  guy  not  look  like 
 a  fountain?  This  just  upright  feel,  this 
 upright  look.  I  love  making  these  guys 
 centerpiece  of  a  grouping.  Have  it 
 flanked  with  your  existing  water  oaks  on 
 one  side  and  a  foxtail  palm  on  the  other 
 side.  We  needed  something  in  the  middle 
 of  this  bed  to  offer  a  little  bit  of 
 punch,  a  little  bit  of  interest.  And  I 
 think  this  dune  palm  hitting  all  the 
 notes  that  it  needs  to  hit  in  this 
 particular  spot.  So,  it  has  become  one 
 of  my  favorite  palms.  The  mere  fact  that 
 it  outs  survived  the  dinosaurs  and  has 
 been  around  that  long,  has  been  that 
 tough,  I  think  deserves  any  spot  in  the 
 garden  you're  willing  to  give  it  because 
 they're  just  extraordinary  and  they 
 offer  a  bit  of  a  sculpture  in  the 
 garden.  And  there's  not  many  features 
 like  palms  that  offer  something  so  close 
 to  the  ground  that  give  you  such  a 
 vertical  look.  And  these  fronds,  every 
 time  the  wind  blows,  it  just  moves  so 
 beautifully.  And  I  don't know,  I  don't 
 think  you  can  go  wrong  with  that  choice 
 for  one  of  your  focal  points.  But  that 
 is  it  you  guys.  Thank  you  so  much  for 
 joining  us  on  this  diverse  grouping  of 
 palms.  I  hope  that  you  learned  something 
 today  and  I  was  able  to  share  with  you 
 some  unique  things  that  maybe  you've  not 
 yet  seen  before  that  you  can  incorporate 
 into  your  garden  if  this  is  a  look  that 
 you  like.  If  you  guys  like  today's 
 video,  then  you  may  love  last  week's 
 video,  which  is  a  lowmaintenance  front 
 yard  garden.  Thank  you  guys  so  much. 
 Take  care.  I  will  see  you  next  weekend.

---

 Well,  hello  true  gardeners.  Welcome 
 back.  Today  we  are  touring  a  garden  in 
 Fort  Pierce,  Florida.  I  wanted  to  bring 
 you  guys  along  on  this  specific  spot 
 because  it  is  a  lowmaintenance  front 
 yard  planting.  And  you  know,  I  think  the 
 right  plant  for  the  right  place  was  so 
 important  to  kind  of  stress  in  this 
 garden.  We're  going  to  do  what  we 
 normally  do.  We're  going  to  walk  through 
 plants  and  trees,  talk  about  why  we  put 
 what,  where,  and  list  on  the  screen  the 
 plants  and  trees  that  we  chose  for  the 
 area.  But  before  we  get  into  it,  I  kind 
 of  want  to  give  you  a  little  bit  of  the 
 backstory  on  this  particular  spot.  I'm 
 going to  get  Bryce  to  pop  in  the  before 
 pictures  and  that  way  you  guys  can  kind 
 of  a  general  feel,  general  vibe  for  this 
 particular  garden.  And  I  say  this 
 because  there  was  really  not  a  whole  lot 
 wrong  with  it,  you  know,  other  than  it 
 was  just  the  wrong  plants  for  the  yard. 
 My  clients  are  travelers.  They're 
 retired  now.  They  want  to  be  out  and 
 about  and  enjoy  retirement.  So,  they're 
 hoping  to  be  out  in  the  garden  only 
 every  couple  months  and  then  travel 
 every  other  time  between  then  and  come 
 home  to  a  well-maintained,  beautiful, 
 lowmaintenance  garden.  This  was  done 
 just  a  few  months  ago,  so  it's  still 
 fairly  new  in  the  planting  stages,  but  I 
 think  that  if  you  guys  are  looking  for 
 something  in  the  low  care  realm  and  you 
 still  want  that  splash  of  tropics,  then 
 stick  around  because  I  think  this  video 
 is  going  to  be  right  up  your  alley.  I  do 
 these  kind  of  projects  every  single 
 week.  We  design,  we  install,  we  design 
 only,  and  we  do  virtual  consults.  So, 
 those  of  you  guys  who  are  needing  some 
 more  than  inspiration  than  what  you're 
 seeing  here,  then  reach  out  to  us  and 
 see  if  we  might  be  a  good  fit  for  what 
 you  guys  are  looking  for.  But  right  now, 
 let's  jump  right  into  this  garden.  Okay. 
 So,  you  guys,  starting  in  this  front  bed 
 that  we  have  here,  starting  with  the 
 lowest  maintenance  thing  in  this  whole 
 front  bed, 
 boulders.  You  guys,  do  not  be  afraid  to 
 incorporate  some  boulders  into  your 
 garden.  They  add  a  change  of  texture, 
 add  a  little  bit  of  ump.  Your 
 landscape's  going  to  grow  around  them. 
 All  you  do  is  trim  around  the  boulders 
 so  that  way  it's  always  seen  in  the 
 garden  and  it  just  becomes  a  place  to 
 rest  your  eye  as  you're  looking  through 
 the  whole  space.  Having  some  impact 
 boulders,  they  don't  have  to  be  crazy 
 expensive  boulders.  I  love  the  coina 
 boulders.  I  love  what  they  offer.  Some 
 of  them  have  the  holes  in  them  where  you 
 can  pop  a  bmilad  or  an  interesting 
 succulent  into  it.  It's  just  kind  of  a 
 little  bit  of  a  little  bit  of 
 personality  in  the  garden  and  it  changes 
 up  that  texture  with,  let's  all  say  it, 
 lowmaintenance,  no  maintenance,  which  is 
 ideal  in  the  garden.  The  next  thing  that 
 we  did  is  you  guys  probably  remember  the 
 giant  fire  bush  clustering  that  was 
 here.  I  don't  know  if  it  came  across  in 
 the  picture  or  not,  but  it  was  taller 
 than  me  and  had  gaps  all  through  the 
 bottom  because  it  was  trimmed  and 
 trimmed  and  trimmed  to  try  to  maintain  a 
 lower  type  of  planting.  But  it  ended  up 
 turning  into  a  wall  which  pretty  much 
 walled  off  the  whole  front  of  the  house 
 here.  It  was  just  complete  cover.  So 
 that  was  the  first  thing  that  we  did. 
 completely  removed,  cleared  out 
 everything  in  this  bed  and  went  back 
 with  a  layering  effect  that  the  client 
 can  still  see  the  home  on.  Starting  with 
 our  low  material.  So  you  guys  know  I 
 love  my  blue  my  minds.  I  just  did  a 
 little  touch  of  those  right  on  the 
 corner  so  that  way  you  get  that  pop  of 
 color.  Now  you  see  we  started  with  the 
 lowest  tier.  So  this  is  kind  of  an  easy 
 thing  to  build  on.  When  you  have  blue  my 
 minds  it  means  what  you  have  in  the  back 
 doesn't  have  to  be  huge.  So  we've  got  a 
 little  clustering  of  foxtail  ferns. 
 Almost  every  time  I  do  a  unique  boulder 
 in  a  landscape,  I'll  put  some  foxtail 
 ferns  or  some  agave  or  some  vermilads, 
 whatever  the  budget  allows  to  kind  of 
 frame  that  boulder  to  kind  of  give  it  a 
 little  bit  of  a  I  don't  know,  a  little 
 bit  of  a  highlight.  So,  having  a  little 
 bit  of  a  halo  of  these  guys,  I  think 
 really  added  some  interest  here.  And 
 they're  not  too  big,  so  they're  not 
 going  to  cover  what  we  have  behind  them. 
 So,  right  behind  them,  we've  got  a  nice 
 grouping  of  King  Seos.  Now,  king  seos 
 grow  exceptionally  slow.  So,  they  kind 
 of  require  once  a  year  trimming.  So, 
 I've  got  them  dazzled  in  a  little 
 cluster  here,  pulled  forward,  back, 
 forward.  And  that's  kind  of my  style. 
 I'm  a  zigzagger  kind  of  landscapers.  And 
 then  I  chose  a  bedding  plant  to  go 
 around  them.  So,  they're  going  to  be 
 really  highlighted  by  these  golden  dues 
 or  gold  mounds  down  below.  When  those 
 are  trimmed  to  kind  of  curve  all  the  way 
 through  this  bed,  they're  clustered 
 together  here  and  they  curve  up 
 through  here  and  then  back  this  way.  It 
 looks  nice  now,  but  when  it  grows  in, 
 it's  going  to  be  like  a  sea  of  this 
 beautiful  lime  kind  of  coloring  and 
 yellow  during  the  summer.  Now,  those  are 
 probably  going  to  be  on  the  higher 
 maintenance  of  everything  in  this  whole 
 garden  because  every  other  month  those 
 are  going  to  need  trimming.  But  most 
 people  have  lawn  maintenance  companies. 
 And  the  one  thing  that  lawn  maintenance 
 companies  do  really  well  is  hedge  trim. 
 So  when  you  have  a  hedge  planting 
 amongst  all  your  sea  of  your  tropical 
 plantings,  you  don't  necessarily  have  to 
 worry  about  how  they're  going  to  trim 
 it.  They're  not  going  to  scalp  it  or  cut 
 it  too  tight  or  cut  it  too  short.  A 
 hedge  of  golden  mound  is  pretty  easy  to 
 kind  of  figure  out  how  you  want  that. 
 So,  this  is  going  to  be  a  nice  dwarfed 
 twoft  sea  of  light  lime  green  during  the 
 times  of  the  year  and  yellow  during  the 
 summer  times  of  the  year.  Then,  we  go 
 into  a  collection  of  these  Carissa 
 boxwood,  which  are  like  a  Florida 
 boxwood.  They're  very  formal,  very,  very 
 tight,  but  I  love  their  round  leaf. 
 They're  very  controlled,  a  great  little 
 planting,  and  they're  just  going  to  kind 
 of  give  us  a  break  between  the  colors, 
 and  that  nothing  shows  off  a  color  more 
 than  when  you  add  green  to  it.  This  pop 
 of  green  between  the  blue,  between  the 
 yellow,  and  again  the  blue  is  really 
 going  to  show  off  so  much  because  of 
 those  little  green  guys.  Kind  of 
 visualize  with  me.  Everything  from  the 
 front  stays  low,  works  its  way  up 
 higher.  Accents  pop  out  of  the  twoft 
 plant  bedding  here.  So,  this  is  going  to 
 be  overall  a  very  clean  design  that 
 really  just  has  some  some  vertical 
 interest,  but  not  overdone  because 
 that's  exactly  what  he  was  getting  away 
 from.  He  did  not  want  it  to  be  overdone. 
 You  didn't  want  to  come  back  and  it'd  be 
 10t  tall  in  this  area  or  even  have 
 things  like  that  in  the  spot.  Now,  I 
 will  say  we  hit  it  out  of  the  park  with 
 this  house  because  they  already  had  a 
 beautiful  collection  of  trees.  We  have 
 two  gorgeous  Christmas  palms  here.  We 
 have  two  stately  foxtail  palms  right  at 
 the  edge  of  the  driveway.  We  have  a 
 beautiful  triple  foxtail  palm  on  the 
 opposite  side  of  the  house  that  is 
 really  grown  in.  Is  just  a  stunner.  on 
 that  corner.  Originally,  there  was  a 
 tree  here,  a  diseased  magnolia  that  just 
 been  struggling  and  it  was  so  close  to 
 everything  else  and  it  was  about,  I 
 would  say,  18t  tall.  It  was  pretty 
 enormous.  It  just  pretty  much  took  up 
 this  whole  space  and  it  was  never  really 
 happy  here.  So,  my  client  was  open  to 
 just  taking  that  out  and  really  opening 
 up  this  bed.  Now,  they  have  concrete 
 curving.  Not  my  favorite,  but  it's 
 working  in  the  space.  If  it  were  edging, 
 I  may  have  changed  the  bed  a  little  bit. 
 just  tweaked  it  a  little  bit  because  you 
 can  pop  that  up  and  add  to  it.  But 
 unfortunately,  the  concrete  edging  is 
 here  to  stay  and  not  you  can't  really 
 manipulate  it  much.  So,  we  worked  with 
 what  was  there,  but  you  know,  sometimes 
 that's  exactly  what  you  have  to  do  in 
 the  landscape  world.  Now,  we  have  two 
 bare  spots  on  the  walls.  So,  originally 
 they  had  a  lot  of  foliage  right  up 
 against  the  house  line  on  the  walls,  but 
 having  some  impact  that's  controlled 
 here,  I  think  is  going  to  be  so  cool. 
 having  that  lime  green  color,  the  blues, 
 the  greens,  the  greens  from  the  King 
 Seos,  and  then  there's  a  big  break  with 
 the  quarter  lines.  I  just  think  that's 
 such  a  cool,  it's  going  to  be  such  a 
 cool  look.  Letting  these  guys  get  to 
 about  my  height  is  going  to  be  gorgeous 
 right  here.  This  just  big  pop  of  color. 
 This  is  a  nice  protected  area,  so 
 they're  going  to  have  a  deeper  tone  than 
 normal.  Now,  you  guys,  when  you  plant 
 your  quarter  lines,  I  know  a  lot  of 
 people  plant  them  at  a  good  distance 
 apart  because  they  worry  about  those 
 roots  connecting  to  the  other  plants  and 
 maybe  starving  them  out.  That  is  not  the 
 case  with  quarter  lines.  You  could 
 actually  pile  these  guys  up  together  and 
 plant  them  in  almost  like  a  bouquet 
 fashion  because  you're  going  to  modify 
 that  soil.  I  mean,  look  how  close  these 
 guys  are  planted  together.  It  allows  it 
 to  be  so  dense  and  full  and  such  a 
 gorgeous  collection.  I  get  so  many 
 questions  on  how  do  you  keep  your 
 quarterline  so  thick  and  luscious  and 
 big.  That's  exactly  how  you  do  it. 
 They'll  naturally  grow  out  like  a  lily 
 versus  growing  straight  up.  So,  they'll 
 kind  of  push  against  each  other  and  do 
 that.  And  as  long  as  your  soil  is  good 
 and  fertile,  as  long  as  you  fertilize, 
 they're  not  going  to  have  any  issues 
 because  they're  going  to  join  roots  and 
 it's  almost  like  you  potted  them  up  from 
 a  small  pot  to  a  bigger  pot  and  they're 
 very,  very  happy.  All right,  so  moving 
 on  to  the  next  area.  So  we  have  some 
 dwarf  kousia.  These  guys  do  not  do  what 
 your  regular  kousia  do.  They  have  a  much 
 smaller  leaf.  They're  the  minis.  They're 
 called  nanas,  and  they  really  stay 
 compact.  You  really  have  to  trim  them 
 very  little,  but  they  have  that  same 
 cool  succulent  leaf.  These  guys  just  had 
 a  real  harsh  trim  back.  So,  you  can 
 really  see  that  they're  a  little  stemi 
 right  now,  but  normally  they're  full  and 
 thick  and  just  such  a  beautiful  tropical 
 little  plant.  A  lot  of  people  say  they 
 look  like  little  mini  sea  grapes,  but 
 they're  just  such  a  cool  little  compact 
 plant.  Easy  to  keep.  They're  just  a  step 
 up  in  size  from  these  carissa  boxwood. 
 So,  they're  going  to  play  so  well 
 together.  And  then  because  we  have  what 
 all  the  paired  backness  to  the  front,  we 
 get  to  get  a  little  wild  and  crazy  to 
 the  back.  So,  we  have  the  song  of  India. 
 I  just  love  how  they're  going  to 
 encompass  this  Queen  Emma.  When  this 
 Queen  Emma  gets  bigger,  you  won't  see 
 this  base  at  all  because  between  these 
 guys  when  they  get  two  foot  and  those 
 guys  when  they  get  4  foot,  you're  really 
 going  to  have  a  sea  of  variegation  and 
 color  right  there.  And  then  that  Queen 
 Emma  is  going  to  pop  out  like,  you  know, 
 somebody  popping  out  of  a  birthday  cake. 
 It's  going  to  be  so  gorgeous  as  that 
 center  firework  in  the  garden.  And  what 
 you'll  notice  that  one  of  the  things 
 that  I  really  liked  about  this  house  is 
 probably  what  you  guys  are  liking,  which 
 is  the  stone  work.  I  think  that  it's  so 
 cool  and  great  feature  on  the  what  it's 
 a  relatively  small  wall.  So  I  took  the 
 blank  walls  and  dialed  them  way  up  with 
 some  color.  And  then  I  took  the  center 
 of  the  window  and  kind  of  gave  something 
 more  vertical  that's  going  to  be  more  of 
 an  impact  vertically  here  that  is  almost 
 going  to  bring  your  attention  to  the 
 wall  instead  of  hiding  it.  So  we've  got 
 chunky  and  fat  vertical  on  the  sides  and 
 then  something  like  a  firework  fountain 
 like  in  the  middle.  And  I  think  that's 
 just  going  to  be  a  nice  combination  in 
 this  front  area.  And  keep  in  mind  this 
 bed  is  not  huge  if  you  guys  are  looking 
 at  this  space.  So  we  really  don't  have  a 
 lot  of  space  to  work  with  in  the  yard  in 
 this  whole  front  yard  space.  This  is 
 outside  the  house  line  right  to  the 
 edge.  And  right  now  all  there  is  is 
 palmettos  and  some  invasive  vines  to 
 that  back.  So  I  chose  Brazilian  red 
 cloaks.  I  really  want  them  to  kind  of 
 engulf  the  whole  base  of  this  tree.  So 
 they  kind  of  go  all  the  way  around  this 
 beautiful  triple  palm  tree.  you  get 
 these  beautiful  big  giant  blooms  that 
 are going  to  come  about  6  to  8  foot  tall 
 and  this  will  be  the  highest  part  of  the 
 landscape.  This  will  be  the  ending 
 point.  It'll  be  almost  like  you  have  now 
 reached  the  finish  line  to  this  bed  and 
 that's  exactly  what  these  guys  are  going 
 to  do.  They're  going  to  really  blanket 
 and  I  think  that's  going  to  be  a  stunner 
 as  a  nice  backdrop  and  it  also  helps 
 kind  of  give  a  little  bit  of  softness  to 
 all  the  pomemettos  behind  it.  We  have  a 
 little  clustering  to  the  front  of  the 
 Songs  of  India  just  to  tie  in  with  that 
 middle  area.  And  then  of  course,  we 
 finished  them  off  with  the  Carissa 
 boxwood.  Now,  if  this  is  y'all's  style 
 and  you  like  this  kind  of  look  for  this 
 particular  bed,  see  how  I  have  a  Carissa 
 boxwood?  I  don't  have  a  whole  row  of 
 them.  I  like  to  keep  it  a  little 
 interesting.  We've  got  the  Carissa 
 boxwood,  a  grouping  of  three,  then 
 there's  a  boulder  and  a  break.  Again, 
 it's  a  rinse  and  repeat.  It's  following 
 a  rhythm.  It's  finding  a  pattern, 
 working  that  pattern  through  the  whole 
 bed.  I  know  that  this  bed  size  is 
 different  than  the  opposite  bed  size, 
 but  you  still  have  to  find  similarities. 
 You'll  notice  that  the  landscape  bed 
 just  comes  together  so  nicely  because 
 there's  a  flow  to  it.  There's  just  a 
 nice  natural  flow  to  that  whole  bed  when 
 that's  done.  So,  find  what  you  like, 
 take  that,  and  then  do  a  break.  Find  a 
 centerpiece  and  then  do  that  again.  Find 
 your  centerpieces  over  here,  but 
 continue  with  that  pattern.  And  if  you 
 can  follow  through  with  that  pattern, 
 then  now  everything  looks  seamless.  And 
 better  than  that,  everything  is  super 
 lowmaintenance.  So,  let's  pop  over  here 
 to  the  next  bed.  But  before  we  do  that, 
 if  this  is  the  kind  of  content  that  you 
 guys  like,  please  do  not  forget  to  like, 
 subscribe,  and  hit  that  little 
 notification  bell.  We  post  every  single 
 weekend,  kind  of  tours  like  this, 
 talking  about  plants  and  trees.  All 
 right,  you  guys.  So,  we're  going  to  work 
 our  way  into  the  next  section  of  the 
 garden.  This  is  coming  right  up  the 
 driveway.  Now,  these  were  not  my  doing. 
 This  was  already  here.  They  had  two 
 beautiful  foxtail  palms  here  surrounded 
 by  some  foxtail  ferns.  A  lot  of  people 
 have  a  very  similar  situation.  They'll 
 have  us  come  in  and  do  like  big  nice  big 
 looped  curved  beds  in  the  front  or  the 
 backyard,  but  then  they've  got  those 
 certain  areas  of  their  previous 
 landscape  and  they're  like,  should  we 
 tie  in  that  to  your  landscape  or  should 
 we  keep  it  separate?  And  a  lot  of  cases 
 I  do  tie  it  in  together.  However,  in 
 this  particular  case,  because  of  the 
 concrete  curbing,  I  opted  to  leave  it 
 individual.  And  I'm  not  hating  it.  I 
 really  do  like  it.  This  side  was  an  easy 
 like  no-brainer.  Obviously,  there's 
 plenty  of  separation,  but  this  side  over 
 here,  I  had  some  concerns  about  because 
 this  area  there  was  a  little  bit  of  a 
 gap  between  here  and  a  little  bit  of a 
 gap  between  there.  And  I  know  low 
 maintenance  was  our  thing.  So,  I'm 
 always  thinking  about  what  is  the  lowest 
 maintenance.  However,  my  client  was 
 perfectly  fine  with  keeping  these  two 
 islands  separated.  I  think  it  added  just 
 a  little  bit  of  that  natural  feel  to  a 
 more  manicured  landscape  that  we  have  to 
 the  back.  And  then  I  also  noticed  that 
 they  took  that  same  kind  of  stonework 
 and  kept  it  in  the  front  sections  right 
 by  the  front  area  of  the  bed.  So  it  kind 
 of  tied  the  two  areas  together.  And  I 
 guess  you  guys  can  see  a  theme  in  the 
 way  that  I  think.  As  long  as  you  have 
 something  that  makes  sense.  As  long  as 
 there's  a  theme  that  starts  here  and 
 wherever  it  ends,  you  continue 
 throughout  those  key  areas  with  that 
 same  theme,  then  you're  going  to  have  a 
 successful  landscape.  It's  going  to  be 
 beautiful  and  it's  going  to  work.  It's 
 going  to  work  low  maintenance-wise  for 
 you.  And  if  this  is  something  that  you 
 guys  are  thinking  about  doing  and  you 
 have  a  similar  situation,  then  just  tie 
 in  whatever  underplanting  maybe.  So 
 maybe  you've  got  a  tree  out  there,  maybe 
 it's  a  holly,  maybe  it's  a  palm  tree, 
 maybe  it's  whatever  it  might  be.  Take 
 whatever  plant  grouping  that  you  have 
 somewhere  else  in  the  bed  and  tie  that 
 in.  Because  you  can  see  underneath  here, 
 we've  got  foxtail  ferns  here  and  it  ties 
 in  with  the  other  foxtail  ferns  that 
 we've  just  kind  of  spotted  around  those 
 boulders,  but  this  could  have  been  the 
 same  type  of  lower  ground  cover  that  we 
 have  in  other  areas  and  worked  just  the 
 same.  So,  we  are  now  at  the  last  bed  in 
 this  front  yard  design,  and  I  think  it's 
 a  beautiful  bed.  I  think  it's  got  a  lot 
 of  variegation  of  color.  I  think  it's 
 really  going  to  bring  a  lot  of  pop.  Now, 
 this  is  the  bed  that's  seen  when  people 
 pull  up  the  driveway,  they  park  here, 
 they  get  out,  they  go  to  the  front  door. 
 So,  this  is  the  area  when  my  client  when 
 Tom  is  pulling  out  and  coming  around 
 this  way,  he  gets  this  right  in  his  face 
 every  single  morning.  And  I  think,  what 
 a  better  way  to  wake  up  than  this.  I 
 think  is  going  to  turn  out  so 
 beautifully  as  it  matures.  These  three 
 palm  trees  we  were  lucky  enough  to 
 inherit.  They  were  here.  So,  we  worked 
 with  what  was  here.  Again,  when  you're 
 doing  lowmaintenance  material,  you  want 
 to  kind  of  uh  work  with  things  that  are 
 more  ordinary,  things  that  are  that  have 
 been  around  the  bin  a  while,  and  that 
 means  mam  croins  and  variegated 
 arbicola.  Are  they  always  showstoppers 
 in  everybody's  garden?  No.  In  some  case, 
 they're  a  supporting  plant  that  just 
 offers  you  exactly  what  you  need.  But 
 sometimes  if  you  take  those  particular 
 plants,  granted  they  have  to  be  a  good 
 quality  of  that  type  of  plant,  but  you 
 take  those  common  plants  and  then  you 
 introduce  something  really  cool  and 
 exotic  near  it,  then  it  allowed  for  you 
 to  have  both  by  choosing  a  more 
 simplistic  plant.  Because  if  you're 
 trying  to  keep  a  low  maintenance  garden, 
 you  got  to  kind  of  be  careful  about  the 
 drama  queens  that  you  pick  in  the 
 garden.  I'm  going  to  balance  it  out  with 
 things  like  this  that  are  more  common 
 that  are  easy  to  care  for  and  not  going 
 to  get  away  from  me.  Mam  Croins  do  a 
 great  job  of  that.  They  really  round 
 out.  They  stay  nice  and  compact.  You  can 
 keep  these  guys  2  foot,  3  foot,  4  foot, 
 whatever  your  collection  of  height  that 
 you're  looking  for  in  this  area  because 
 they  grow  so  slow  and  you  have  to  trim 
 them  so  little.  You  can  keep  them  at  a 
 desired  height  as  small  as  2  foot,  which 
 is  ideal.  These  to  the  back  are  the 
 variegated  arbicas.  And  having  them 
 right  in  this  range,  having  them  around 
 4t  is  going  to  make  this  color  pop  out. 
 Right  now,  you  see  right  through  to  the 
 back  because  these  aren't  tall  enough. 
 But  once  they  get  into  this  height,  have 
 a  little  yellow  and  green  to  the  back  of 
 your  red  and  yellows  and  oranges,  and 
 you  will  see  those  red,  yellows,  and 
 oranges  pop  like  crazy  because  of  what 
 these  guys  are  doing  as  a  backdrop  to 
 force  that  color  forward.  So,  these  are 
 going to  be  a  great  yellow  and  green 
 green  screen  for  this  color  on  this 
 corner.  And  then  we  had  two  kind  of  big 
 gaps.  We  have  a  tree  in  the  middle  with 
 kind  of  no  real  center  pieces.  So,  I 
 opted  to  do  two  cateria  palms.  They're 
 only  going  to  get  9  to  10  foot  in  this 
 particular  spot.  They're  kind  of  nice 
 and  compact  at  the  bottom.  Opens  up  like 
 a  bouquet  towards  the  middle  and  kind  of 
 softens  this  back  area.  He  didn't  want 
 anything  like  kousi  here  or  anything 
 like  too  much  of  a  barrier  here.  More  of 
 a  natural  screening  because  there's  no 
 grass  behind  there.  That's  kind  of  just 
 a  a  natural  walkway  to  get  back  to  the 
 preserve.  So,  he  wanted  a  soft  screening 
 but  not  complete  coverage.  And  that's 
 exactly  what  this  is  going  to  do.  Now 
 just  to  either  side  of  the  variegated 
 arbicas,  we  have  the  Pinocchio  Croins. 
 These  Croins  have  stolen  my  heart.  I  am 
 using  them  everywhere.  I  love  the  way 
 they  look.  I  started  using  them  about  3 
 years  ago,  but  now  I'm  seeing  them  more 
 readily  available  and  thank  goodness  for 
 it  because  they  can  grow  in  the  sun. 
 They  can  grow  in  the  shade  and  I  mean 
 sun,  I  mean  sun,  sun,  sun.  They  can  grow 
 out  in  the  full  sun  and  really  keep  that 
 spotted  variegated  color.  It's  kind  of  a 
 combination  of  different  leaves.  I  mean, 
 look  at  this  leaf  color  here  with  some 
 of  that  orange  to  some  of  this  leaf 
 color.  I  don't know  if  you  can  see  it, 
 but  down  here  with  just  that  kind  of 
 variegation  of  what  almost  like  a  sloppy 
 painter  does.  It's  got  like  a 
 combination  of  several  different 
 varieties  of  croins  all  in  one.  But  what 
 I  do  like  about  them  is  they  will  get 
 big.  So  these  guys  could  get  five,  six, 
 seven  foot  tall  back  here  and  stay  full 
 from  the  top  to  the  bottom,  which  is  a 
 unique  trait  when  it  comes  to  croins. 
 That  is  not  something  that  you  commonly 
 get.  You  always  have  to  have  a  skirt 
 planting  mostly  with  croins.  These  guys 
 will  stay  full  top  to  bottom  become  a 
 nice  colorful  wall  back  here  and  they're 
 going to  have  the  variegation  of  the 
 light  and  greens  on  either  side.  So  that 
 variegation  of  the  arbicas  down  to  these 
 is  just  going  to  be  a  pop  of  color.  And 
 just  in  case  that  wasn't  enough  color, 
 we've  spotted  the  songs  of  India  to  the 
 front  of  those.  Oh  my  goodness.  Right 
 around  that  boulder.  They're  all  hairy 
 carry.  They're  all  a  little  wild. 
 They're  right  after  my  own  heart.  I  just 
 love  how  they're  going  to  connect 
 together.  And  you  guys,  we  do  not  have 
 tons  of  these.  We  have  six.  Three  and 
 three  in  a  triangle  formation.  Two  to 
 the  back,  one  pulled  forward.  Here  we 
 have  two  to  the  front,  one  pulled  back. 
 I  love  that  zigzag  pattern  because  my 
 whole  goal  is  to  make  six  plants  look 
 like  one  plant.  You  want  a  kind  of  a 
 connection.  That's  what  keeps  things  low 
 maintenance.  It  helps  with  weed  control, 
 making  this  your  ground  cover  by  itself. 
 Once  these  connect,  you're  not  mulching 
 in  this  bed.  You're  only  mulching  along 
 the  tips  or  along  the  edges  of  the 
 garden.  This  is  all  concealed.  This  is 
 all  dense.  This  is  all  full.  And  it  goes 
 from  this  height  of  4  foot  to  what's 
 hopefully  get  to  about  6T  and  then  we've 
 got  4T  on  the  corners  with  the 
 variegated  aricas  down  to  2  foot  with 
 the  mammy  croins  in  the  front.  So  you 
 can  kind  of  see  how  this  layering  is 
 going  to  come  in.  And  I  mean  it's  going 
 to  go  boom  boom  back  down  to  the  foxtail 
 ferns  up  to  the  variegated  arbicas  up  to 
 the  tallest  version  of  these  pinocchio 
 croins  and  then  down  to  the  song  of 
 India  and  then  all  the  way  down  to  the 
 la  at  the  end.  So  when  this  bed  comes 
 together  it's  going  to  be  just  like  a 
 sequence  of  movement.  It's  not  a  huge 
 bed  to  do  that.  This  can  be  any  island 
 somewhere  or  any  front  yard  anywhere. 
 This  doesn't  have  to  be  at  the  edge  of  a 
 driveway.  I  think  you  can  replicate  this 
 just  about  anywhere  that  you  get  a 
 little  bit  of  filter  protection.  You  do 
 need  some  sun  protection  to  create  an 
 island  like  this,  but  overall  it's  going 
 to  be  an  easy  care  island.  And  then  we 
 have  a  centerpiece  of  the  boulder  and  we 
 flanked  an  agave  on  either  side  of  those 
 boulders.  And  then  yet  again,  a  little 
 clustering  of  three  foxtail  ferns  to 
 kind  of  give  it  a  little  bit  of  impact 
 and  to  kind  of  tie  it  in  with  the  rest 
 of the  landscape.  In  this  particular 
 spot,  we  don't  have,  believe  it  or  not, 
 as  much  sun  as  we  have  in  the  front.  So, 
 I  use  Lauria,  evergreen  laapy.  That's 
 going  to  stay  nice  and  compact  and  low 
 and  just  kind  of  give  this  bed  a  little 
 bit  of  a  softening.  So,  it's  going  to  do 
 a  great  job.  If  they  didn't  have 
 curbing,  that  would  help  that  mulch  flow 
 in.  So,  if  you  guys  do  not  have  edging 
 between  your  pavers  and  your 
 landscaping,  use  green  la.  They'll  do  a 
 fantastic  job.  Just  stagger  them  in  and 
 they'll  kind  of  knit  together  and  hold 
 in  that  ground  cover.  And  then  as  that 
 grows  in  a  year,  year  and  a  half  later, 
 you  won't  have  to  mulch  those  edgings  at 
 all  because  that  laria  pee  will  now 
 become  your  ground  cover.  So  it's  an 
 ideal  thing  to  incorporate.  All  right, 
 you  guys.  We  have  reached  the  end  of  the 
 bed.  This  right  here  is  a  transplanted 
 bird  of  paradise.  We  inherited  it.  It's 
 going  through  a  little  bit  of  a  shock, 
 but  it'll  bounce  back.  We  had  this 
 little  corner  area,  so  I  chose  to 
 relocate  it  back  into  this  spot.  And 
 then  we  ended  it  with  the  Brazilian  red 
 cloaks,  just  like  we  have  on  the 
 opposite  corner  of  the  garden.  the  whole 
 other  side  of  the  yard.  But  when  you're 
 looking  from  the  street  and  these  guys 
 are  6  7  foot  tall  and  those  guys  are  6  7 
 foot  tall  over  there,  blooming  with 
 color,  it'll  feel  like  the  perfect 
 sandwich.  The  house  is  just  sandwiched 
 in  between  them.  So  ending  it  where  you 
 started  is  ideal  if  you  can  do  that.  The 
 rest  of  the  garden,  as  you  can  see,  is  a 
 complete  repeat  of  what  we  have  on  the 
 opposite  side.  And  that  is  the  goal 
 there.  We're  going  to  get  out  of  here 
 before  we  continue  to  melt.  As  you  can 
 see,  Bryce  and  I  are  both  melting.  So, 
 if  you  guys  enjoyed  today's  garden  tour, 
 then  you  really  might  enjoy  last  week's 
 garden  tour,  which  is  instant  privacy. 
 This  is  going  to  be  give  you  exactly 
 what  you're  looking  for  if  you  want  to 
 get  rid  of  some  nosy  neighbors.  So, 
 thank  you  guys  so  much.  Take  care.  See 
 you  next  weekend.

---

 Well,  hey  gardeners.  I  hear  you  guys  are 
 looking  for  some  potted  plants  to  liven 
 up  just  that  perfect  spot  in  your  own 
 backyard  or  front  yard  space.  Well, 
 today  I  want  to  share  with  you  some  of 
 my  favorite,  five  in  particular,  of  my 
 favorite  potted  plants  that  I  have  here 
 in  my  very  own  garden.  However,  this 
 isn't  just  about  looks.  These  potted 
 plants  are  in  here  for  a  specific 
 reason.  They're  helping  me  solve  a 
 problem  in  my  space.  then  sharing  those 
 plants  and  that  reason  really  might  help 
 you  find  the  perfect  spot  and  fix  a 
 problem  in  your  own  space.  So  you  guys 
 remember  if  this  is  the  kind  of  content 
 that  you  guys  like  to  see,  please  like, 
 subscribe,  hit  that  little  notification 
 bell,  but  we're  going  to  jump  right  into 
 the  very  first  plant.  So  for  starters  is 
 my  dune  palm.  Oh  my  goodness,  what  a 
 fabulous  palm  this  guy  is.  I  absolutely 
 love  this  vertical  look  that  it  offers. 
 I  plant  them  all  the  time  in  the  ground. 
 However,  in  this  particular  spot,  I  had 
 these  old  croins.  These  are  excellence 
 croins  that  I  had  to  cut  back  when  we 
 installed  our  pool,  and  I  wanted  them  to 
 get  big.  I  love  the  way  they  look  when 
 they  really  grow  into  this  space,  but  I 
 still  wanted  something  to  bounce  off 
 this  fence  line.  So,  I  wanted  something 
 real  vertical,  something  that  would  give 
 us  a  nice  almost  like  a  sculpture  in  the 
 garden.  That's  exactly  what  a  potted 
 plant  offers  you  is  it  gives  you  a 
 little  raise,  gets  it  into  the  garden, 
 gives  you  a  little  bit  of  feature  at  the 
 bottom  with  some  color  and  then  you  can 
 put  something  vertical  and  set  it  right 
 into  the  garden.  Now,  this  particular 
 spot  right  here  has  a  stump  underneath. 
 So,  it  was  one  of  those  that  was  kind  of 
 challenging.  I  couldn't  put  a  tree  here 
 if  I  wanted  to,  but  I  absolutely  love 
 that,  you  know,  30-in  rise  that  it  gave 
 me  by  putting  a  pot  in  this  spot  and 
 then  allowing  this  guy  to  get.  you  know, 
 he'll  get  about  2  foot  taller  and  stop 
 and  then  these  guys  will  engulf  the  base 
 and  it'll  just  look  like  he's  tucked 
 right  into  this  nook.  So,  a  dune  palm  is 
 ideal  for  a  pot  and  can  live  in  it  for  a 
 long,  long  time.  They  don't  have  a  huge 
 root  system,  so  they  can  really 
 withstand  sitting  in  a  pot  for  a  good 
 period  of  time.  And  then  they  can  also 
 dry  out  really  well.  So,  if  I  forget 
 this  little  area  for  any  length  of  time 
 or  I  don't  have a  pot  mister  or  don't 
 have  irrigation,  this  is  a  drought 
 tolerant  tree.  It  can  really  really  do 
 well  here  in  kind  of  a  forget  me  spot. 
 It  does  like  a  little  bit  of  protection. 
 Can  handle  early  morning,  midday,  early 
 afternoon  sun,  but  that  late  afternoon 
 sun  kind  of  where  we  are  now,  that's  the 
 perfect  time  for  it  to  get  some  shade. 
 It'll  be  a  super  super  happy  tree  in  any 
 of  those  conditions.  And  I  just  I  love 
 what  it  does  here.  However,  for  another 
 plus  of  why  it's  in  the  pot  is  this  tree 
 would  never  get  to  the  stature  that  it's 
 in  without  this  kind  of  height  that  the 
 pot  is  offering.  And  without  that  kind 
 of  height,  it  would  get  engulfed  and 
 just  kind  of  get  lost  into  this  space 
 because  these  guys  I'm  going  to  let  be 
 around  that  5  foot  range  and  really 
 engulf  the  base  of  it.  Having  it  in  the 
 pot  allows  me  to  give  that  rise  and  it's 
 not  going  to  get  lost  in  this  planting. 
 So  that  can  happen  a  lot.  Like  the 
 laqualas  for  instance,  every  time  I  put 
 a  laquala  in,  clients  are  always 
 concerned  it's  going  to  get  lost  in  the 
 rest  of the  foliage.  And  it  absolutely 
 can.  So  if  that's  you,  then  put  that 
 laquala  in  a  30  in  or  24in  pot.  I  give 
 it  a  little bit  of  rise.  Stick  that  guy 
 into  the  garden  and  let  him  just  kind  of 
 just  have  his  own  space  popped  up, 
 elevated.  And  they're  they're  fabulous 
 for  that.  And  then  even  maybe  stick  a 
 little  plant  stand  underneath  of  it  and 
 add  a  little  bit  of  light  and  it'll 
 shine  glow  underneath.  I  just  love  what 
 you  can  do  with  pots.  And  that's  the 
 thing  to  kind  of  keep  in  mind,  you  know, 
 don't  just  rush  to  go  put  the  first 
 thing  into  that  pot.  Set  that  pot  there 
 for  a  little  while.  Really  get  an  idea 
 of  what  you're  wanting  to  achieve  with 
 the  space.  I  knew  in  this  spot  I  wanted 
 to  soften  that  hard  fence  that  you  see 
 in  the  garden.  And  I  love  the  idea  of 
 having  another  palm  tree  here  even 
 though  I  couldn't.  So  the  pot  allowed  me 
 to  do  that  because  it  gave  me  the  rays, 
 got  me  up  out  of  this  color  here,  and 
 then  it's  going  to  allow  this  to  really 
 become  almost  like  a  crowning  effect 
 over  top  of  this  spot.  So  a  pot  in  the 
 garden,  ideal  thing  to  do.  Dune  palms 
 are  fabulous  for  that.  So  give  them  a 
 try.  And  now  for  my  second  favorite 
 potted  plant.  Now,  you  guys,  I'm  sure, 
 have  seen  this  in  the  background  of  a 
 lot  of  videos.  She  is  not  into  her  full 
 bloom  right  now.  She  just  went  through  a 
 blooming  cycle  and  was  just  covered  with 
 these  beautiful  pink  blooms.  It  is  the 
 famous  desert  rose.  Now,  I  see  these 
 guys  in  nurseries  all  the  time.  They're 
 in  pots  this  big  and  you  put  them  in  the 
 ground  and  they  just  don't  do  super 
 well.  A  lot  of  people  will  have  them  in 
 small  pots,  but  you  guys  consider 
 putting  them  into  a  larger  pot.  Give 
 them  some  room  to  grow.  Give  them  time 
 to  become  that  statement  piece  and  you 
 will  not  regret  it.  I  have  had  her  here 
 for  years  and  years  and  years.  She's 
 developed  all  of  these  cool  trunks.  I 
 cut  her  back  every  single  year  and  then 
 just  kind  of  give  it  a  nice  rounded 
 little  haircut  here  and  then  it  just 
 blossoms  all  the  way  around  and  offers 
 just  a  little  bit  of  softness  to  the 
 edge  of  my  decking.  Now  I  have  my  fence 
 here  and  I  kind  of  just,  you  know,  I 
 kind  of  wanted  something  with  some 
 beauty  right  up  against  the  patio.  a  lot 
 of  harshness  that  I  have  here  with  the 
 hardcaping.  And  I  think  the  pot  did  a 
 fabulous  job  of  doing  that.  And  the 
 desert  rose  is  one  of  those  kind  of 
 forget  me  knots.  You  know,  you  don't 
 have  to  water  it.  It's  watered  by  the 
 rain.  It  you  really  don't  have  to  do  a 
 whole  lot  to  it.  Wants  a  little  bit  of 
 fertilizer  every  once  in  a  while,  but 
 that's  it.  Overall,  I  do  very  little  to 
 nothing  other  than  maybe  a  once  a  year 
 trimming  on  it.  And  it  just  shows  off 
 all  summer  long.  10  months  out  of  the 
 year,  fabulous  with  color.  And  then  you 
 get  those  couple  months  where  it's 
 pretty  much  bald.  But,  you  know,  you  got 
 to  you  got  to  be  patient  with  her.  But 
 you  may  ask,  why  is  it  in  a  pot  and  not 
 into  the  garden?  Why  don't  I  have  tons 
 of  these  in  the  garden  if  they're  so  low 
 maintenance?  Well,  because  I  love  a 
 tropical  garden,  as  you  guys  can  see.  I 
 love  a  lush  tropical,  heavily  foliageed 
 garden  with  colors  and  layers.  And  this 
 girl  just  cannot  handle  it.  She  cannot 
 handle  all  that  water.  So,  if  I  put  her 
 into  the  ground,  then  she  will  get  root 
 rot.  and  you  know  that  will  be  the  end 
 of  her.  So  a  pot  is  an  ideal  situation. 
 Having  them  in  a  nice  big  pot  with  a 
 little  bit  of  stone  on  the  bottom  raised 
 up  with  these  pot  feet  that  I  have  here 
 will  allow  every  single  time  it  rains 
 the  water  to  drain  and  drain  out  and 
 release.  So  it's  never  going  to  get 
 water  logged  in  this  pot.  I  will  have 
 this  desert  rose  for  so  many  more  years 
 because  of  it  the  situation  that  it's 
 in.  It  gets  great  full  sun,  blooms  all 
 the  time,  and  then  I  don't  have  to  worry 
 about  watering  it  at  all.  So,  give  the 
 desert  rose  a  try.  If  you  guys  have  a 
 similar  situation,  if  you  got  a  pool 
 patio  or  if  you  got,  you  know,  a  hard 
 spot  like  this  that  gets  just  really 
 heavy  full  sun,  but  you  want  some  pops 
 of  color,  you  want  some  interest,  and 
 you've  got  maybe  some  cool  pots  you  want 
 to  showcase  something  in,  then  desert 
 roses  are  ideal  for  things  like  that. 
 So,  give  them  a  go.  All right,  you  guys. 
 So,  we  are  on  to  our  next  potted  plant. 
 Now,  if  you  guys  have  a  little  bit  of  a 
 shade  area,  this  is  a  perfect  little 
 tree  to  incorporate  into  your  garden. 
 Now,  you  can  put  it  on  a  patio  deck,  you 
 can  put  it  inside  a  pool,  inside  a  pool 
 cage,  you  can  put  it  inside  your  indoor 
 screen  area,  you  can  pretty  much  put  it 
 anywhere  where  it  gets  a  little  bit  of 
 protection  from  the  sun.  But  the  rafus 
 palm  or  aka  lady  palm  is  an  ideal  little 
 palm  tree  to  incorporate  into  a  space. 
 Now,  I  say  little  because  it  has  the 
 same  problem  that  the  dune  palm  had 
 where  it  was  just  a  tad  bit  small  to 
 incorporate  into  a  real  lush  garden.  So, 
 I  raised  it  and  put  it  into  this  planter 
 and  then  incorporated  it  back  into  the 
 garden  just  to  give  it  a  little  bit  of  a 
 different  texture.  Right  now,  we  have 
 some  very  newly  trimmed  kucia  as  our 
 backdrop  and  then  some  agave  down  below. 
 So,  we  have  a  lot  of  different  kind  of 
 foliage  here  and  that's  the  best  part 
 about  landscaping  is  you're  not  just 
 landscaping  with  plants  and  trees, 
 you're  landscaping  with  all  these 
 different  textures.  So  incorporating 
 things  like  these  little  fingered  fronds 
 here  is  a  whole  different  look  amongst 
 uh  layers  of  different  kind  of  flowy 
 natural  weeping  kind  of  fronds.  So  I 
 love  the  what  they  offer  in  the  garden. 
 However,  what  I  don't  love  is  the  level 
 of  maintenance  involved  when  they  go 
 into  the  ground.  Now  they  do  have  these 
 individual  stocks  here  that  are  runners. 
 So  those  guys  will  reproduce  and  pop  up 
 little  pups  in  other  places.  Now,  a  lot 
 of  people  have  no  trouble  cutting  them 
 out,  removing  them,  and  then  working 
 with  them.  However,  I  just  don't  I  don't 
 have  that  kind  of  time.  So,  I  really 
 love  the  idea  of  putting  them  into  a 
 pot.  So,  I  kind  of  keep  them  almost  like 
 a  bouquet  here.  And  I  grow  them  kind  of 
 like  I  farm  them.  So,  I  love  this  frond 
 so  much.  It  looks  so  fabulous  inside  my 
 house  as  little  cutings.  You  just  take 
 off  of  one  of  these  little  trunks  here. 
 You  take  three  or  four  little  fronds 
 here  and  then  put  it  into  the  smallest 
 of  voses  and  it  just  adds  a  little  bit 
 of  a  a  crazy  whimsy  kind  of  look.  So  I 
 think  they're  fabulous  for  indoor  vases. 
 So  this  is  such  a  slow  growing  little 
 tree.  It's  ideal  for  a  pot.  She's  been 
 in  this  pretty  small  chunky  pot  for 
 about  four  years  and  loving  it.  Still 
 producing,  still  doing  great.  So  I  would 
 say  this  is  a  fantastic  long-term  pot 
 tree  to  work  with.  But  now  let's  jump 
 over  to  the  next  tree.  All  right.  So  the 
 buganvilia,  oh  my  gosh,  if  you  are  in 
 Florida,  you  have  seen  buganvilia  here, 
 you've  seen  buganvilia  there.  They  are  a 
 fabulous,  fabulous  tree  or  bush  to  work 
 with  until  you  have  to  trim  them  and 
 then  you  have  to  trim  them  a  lot.  So  the 
 reason  why  I  put  my  buganilla  in  these 
 pots  here  in  my  front  entrance  for  two 
 good  reasons.  The  first  being  well 
 because  I  absolutely  love  them.  I  love 
 seeing  them  peek  out  into  having  these 
 blooms  and  this  kind  of  clustering  as 
 soon  as  I  walk  through  my  gate.  My 
 Bugenville  trees  have  two  to  three 
 different  colors  in  each  tree.  So,  when 
 they're  going  to  town,  they  are 
 absolutely  just  like  showstoppers  in  the 
 garden.  However,  they  are  very  similar 
 to  how  the  desert  rose  works.  They 
 really  just  do  not  like  that  much  water. 
 So,  the  more  stress  they  have,  the  lack 
 of  water,  all  that  heat  that  they  get 
 with  very  little  water  makes  them  bloom 
 like  crazy.  It's  like  they  show  up  in 
 tough  conditions.  They're  like  the 
 marines  of  the  garden.  These  guys  are 
 fantastic.  And  those  of  you  guys  who've 
 had  to  trim  them  in  the  past  know  that 
 they're  no  easy  walk  in  the  park  to 
 trim.  So  being  able  to  contain  them  in  a 
 pot  slows  the  growth  way  down.  So  you 
 can  really  kind  of  keep  these  in  nice 
 little  tree  forms  for  years  and  years 
 and  years  in  a  potted  area  and  put  them 
 out  into  your  sunny  spots.  Maybe  it's 
 those  spots  that  gosh  everything  fries 
 out  there.  Nothing  does  well.  Well,  try 
 Bugganville  because  they  love  it  out  in 
 this  particular  area.  They  do  like  to  be 
 fed,  so  fertilizing  is  a  part  of  their 
 maintenance.  However,  it  is  worth  it 
 when  you  fertilize  out  there  and  you 
 come  out  2  to  3  days  later  and  it's  like 
 with  all  this  color.  So,  so  worth  it. 
 So,  I  have  boogan  billas  coming  up 
 through  my  front.  Now,  another  reason 
 why  I  have  them  here  is  because  I  have  a 
 septic  tank  here  and  I  didn't  want  them 
 to  kind  of  crawl  and  go  all  through 
 this.  I've  really  tried  to  keep  my 
 landscaping  bare  in  this  particular 
 area.  And  by  putting  them  in  pots  here, 
 it  controls  any  kind  of  roots  or 
 anything  like  that  from  going  into  that 
 septic  system.  And  I  just  love  the  what 
 pots  offer  in  a  garden.  It's  a  little 
 bit  of  that  rustic  charm  in  the 
 landscape.  But  you  guys  will  have  to  let 
 me  know  what  you  think. 
 Wow.  Right  at  the  corner  of  my  property, 
 right  where  she  belongs,  this  is  the 
 variegated  tapioca  plant.  Now,  when  I 
 planted  this  girl,  she  was  not  very  big 
 at  all.  about  two  foot  tall  and  you  know 
 pretty  narrow  and  pretty  skinny.  And 
 that  is  the  reason  why  I  planted  her  in 
 a  pot  because  I  love  this  plant.  I  had  a 
 hard  time  figuring  out  how  best  to  use 
 it  in  a  garden.  And  when  that  happens,  I 
 really  don't  know  how  to  incorporate  it 
 in  other  people's  garden.  So,  I  wanted 
 to  make  sure  that  I  was  happy  with  the 
 growth  rate,  what  it  did,  if  it's 
 something  that  I  can  control  or  if  it's 
 something  that's  going  to  be  forever  in 
 a  potted  plant  location.  It's  perfect 
 for  those  cool  planters  that  you  want 
 something  interesting,  something  a 
 little  bit  crazy  to  work  with.  It's 
 ideal  for  that  situation.  Probably  not 
 something  that  I  would  put  into  an  open 
 planting  area  just  because  it  has  a 
 tendency  to  really  create  these  stocks, 
 really  kind  of  really  pop  out  and  create 
 beautiful  growth  at  the  top,  but  it's 
 going  to  follow  the  sun.  So,  wherever 
 the  sun  is,  that  might  not  be  where  you 
 want  it  to  go,  but  that's  where  it's 
 going  to  go.  So,  you  want  to  make  sure 
 to  kind  of  control  it  into  that  way. 
 Now,  I  am  allowing  it  to  continue 
 flowing  out  this  way  because  I  love 
 curves.  I  mean,  you  guys  have  been  on 
 this  channel,  you  know  how  much  I  love 
 curves.  So,  the  mere  fact  that  it's  kind 
 of  doing  this  whole  thing  is  totally  up 
 my  alley.  The  fact  that  it's  on  the 
 corner  of  my  walkway  as  you're  coming 
 around  the  corner  leading  into  the 
 backyard  setting.  I  think  that  it  kind 
 of  adds  a  little  bit  of  ump  like,  oh, 
 you  have  entered  the  garden.  So,  I  think 
 it's  just  ideal  for  that  kind  of  spot. 
 But  the  variegated  tapioca  has  these 
 gorgeous  leaves,  just  a  splash  of  bright 
 color.  And  then  all  the  stemming  has  a 
 little  bit  of  that  pinkish  reddish  tone 
 to  it.  And  then  of  course  the  individual 
 trunks  have  more  of  a  yellow  kind  of 
 framing  to  it.  What  a  beautiful 
 framework  it  has.  I  just  absolutely 
 think  it  is  a  gorgeous  plant  to  work 
 with.  Would  I  put  it  in  the  garden?  No. 
 It's  just  a  little  bit  too  wild,  too 
 crazy  even  for  me.  But  in  a  pot,  don't 
 hesitate.  put  in  a  small  planter  or  near 
 a  waterfall  area.  Some  of  the  pockets  of 
 the  waterfall,  this  is  an  ideal  plant  to 
 work  with.  You  can  get  them  in  three 
 gallon  size,  you  can  get  them  in  seven 
 gallon  size.  I've  seen  them  all  the  way 
 up  into  the  25gallon  size.  Make  sure  the 
 pot  is  big  enough  kind  of  like  this  big 
 clay  pot  that  we  have  here  where  it  is 
 heavy  enough,  has  enough  weight  to  it, 
 so  when  it  does  start  to  do  this,  you're 
 not  constantly  propping  or  or  fixing 
 this  pot.  I  have  to  do  nothing  with  this 
 area.  I  occasionally  trim  this  guy,  but 
 you  know,  overall  it's  been  a  sturdy  pot 
 in  a  sturdy  spot  for  this  particular 
 plant  in  the  garden,  but  variegated 
 tapioca  definitely  want  to  brighten  up  a 
 spot.  They  can  handle  filtered  light. 
 They  can  handle  medium  light.  They  like 
 obviously  the  sun,  so  they  can  handle 
 all  midday  sun.  Towards  the  afternoon 
 sun,  I've  seen  where  some  of  the  leaves 
 have  dried,  so  it  got  kind  of  got  a 
 little  bit  of  sunburnt  spot.  So  pay  kind 
 of  attention  to  where  you're  going  to 
 plant  it  in  the  garden.  And  then  make 
 sure  the  pot  is  big  enough  where  it  can 
 hold  some  moisture.  When  I'm  trying  to 
 put  in  a  big  plant  or  a  big  focal  point, 
 you're  definitely  going  to  want  a  pot 
 that's  at  least  20  24  in  tall  and  as 
 much  of  a  wide  mouth  as  you  can  possibly 
 get  because  that's  what's  going  to  give 
 the  plant  the  root  ball  the  size  to 
 really  expand.  It  doesn't  matter  if  you 
 don't  absolutely  love  the  coloring  cuz 
 you  can  always  do  something  kind  of  like 
 this  where  you  can  drape  something  over 
 top  of  it.  You  can  even  pop  some  cool 
 plants  to  the  front  of  it.  You  don't 
 necessarily  need  to  see  the  pot,  but 
 it's  definitely  a  great  feature.  I  love 
 the  terracotta  or  the  clay  pots.  They 
 don't  allow  the  root  ball  to  get  so 
 soggy.  They  really  do  a  great  job  of 
 drying  out  fast,  and  I  just  think  that 
 they're  a  great  potted  material  to  work 
 with  in  the  garden.  So,  if  you  have  an 
 area  there  that  where  you  have 
 irrigation,  you  can  add  a  little  pot 
 mister  to  that  with  no  problem.  Then,  it 
 is  going  to  grow  and  grow  and  jack  and 
 the  beantock  kind  of  grow.  So  allow  for 
 that  and  it'll  be  the  perfect  feature 
 for  that  perfect  spot  in  your  garden.  So 
 there  you  have  it  gardeners,  five  potted 
 plants  that  can  liven  up  your  space  and 
 the  reasons  why  some  really  good  reasons 
 why  to  maybe  incorporate  them  in  your 
 very  own.  So  if  you  guys  enjoyed  today's 
 video,  then  hopefully  you'll  enjoy  a 
 recent  video  that  we  did  of  a  cutting 
 garden  on  some  of  those  exact  plants 
 that  we  were  just  talking  about  how  we 
 incorporated  them  and  brought  them 
 indoors,  bringing  the  jungle  inside.  So 
 you  guys  check  that  video  out.  Thank  you 
 so  much.  Take  care  and  I  will  see  you 
 guys  next  weekend.

---

 All  right,  welcome  back  gardeners.  So 
 today's  video  is  all  about  how  to  start 
 the  process,  how  to  get  this  whole 
 project  going.  We  are  going  to  discuss 
 several  steps  on  how  to  kind  of  start 
 from  a  blank  slate  to  visualizing  the 
 very  next  step  to  the  installation  to 
 soil  amendments,  talking  about  root 
 barriers.  Um,  just  kind  of  giving  you  a 
 very  good  feel  for  how  to  start  this 
 project  to  the  final  ending.  That  way 
 you  have  a  great  game  plan  before  the 
 first  shovel  hits  the  ground. 
 [Music] 
 Oh,  I  think  it's  cooler  up  here. 
 All right,  you  guys.  So,  if  you  are 
 working  on  a  budget  and  you're  kind  of 
 figuring  out,  you  know,  what  to  start 
 with.  So,  you  always  want  to  start  with 
 manipulating  your  gallon  size.  If  you 
 can  start  with  your  big  material  first, 
 then  come  in  with  your  layered  material, 
 especially  if  you're  going  to  do  what 
 Eugene  and  Nikki  are  doing  here,  which 
 is  they're  going  to  do  things  in  phases. 
 So,  we're  getting  all  the  tree  material 
 in  for  them.  Next,  they're  going to  come 
 in  and  do  the  accent  material  and  the 
 bush  planting.  So,  if  I  were  setting  it 
 up  or  giving  you  some  advice  like  I  am 
 today  to  how  to  start  that  process,  it 
 would  be  to  be  sure  to  take  your  rear 
 plantings,  the  backdrop  of  everything. 
 Make  sure  that  is  your  tallest  material. 
 Those  are  kind  of  your  roof  lines  of  the 
 planting.  In  this  particular  project, 
 it's  the  coconut  palms  and  the 
 traveler's  palms.  If  you're  doing  it 
 yourself  and  you  can  handle  a  30-gallon 
 size,  those  would  be  your  30-gallon 
 plants.  Everything  in  your  backdrop 
 would  be  your  big  stuff.  And  then  you 
 can  come  in  with  your  next  tier.  What's 
 going  to  be  in  front  of  that?  Come  in 
 with  now  15  gallon  and  then  below  seven 
 gallon,  three  gallon,  one  gallon.  And 
 that's  a  great  way  to  make  sure  that  you 
 know  you're  working  in  layers.  And  it's 
 also  for  Nikki  and  Eugene,  it's  going  to 
 give  them  foliage  from  the  ground  up.  So 
 as  they're  waiting  for  budgets  to  allow 
 for  the  next  phase,  they're  going  to 
 have  some  fullness  down  below.  So,  as 
 everything  layers  into  place,  they're 
 going  to  still  feel  like  they  have  a 
 great  waterfall  effect  leading  down  to 
 the  pool  area.  I  get  this  question  so 
 often.  How  close  can  I  plant  these  trees 
 together?  Well,  that  all  depends  on  the 
 size  that  you  start  with.  If  you  can 
 start  with  a  nice  tall  tree  that  has  a 
 great  roof  line  and  a  bit  of  a  trunk. 
 Now,  you  can  put  that  other  tree  right 
 to  the  front  of  it.  Keep  in  mind,  you've 
 already  amended  the  soil.  You're  going 
 to  make  sure  everything  gets  good 
 fertilization.  These  things  are  not 
 going  to  compete  with  each  other. 
 They're  going  to  be  in  the  same  soil 
 line  as  each  other.  Hopefully  that 
 doesn't  concern  you  too  much  about  that. 
 So  go  ahead  and  put  your  coconut  palm 
 there.  Then  come  in  with  your  your 
 triangle  palm.  That's  25  gallon.  That's 
 going  to  be  about  half  the  size.  Then 
 come  in  with  your  pigment  a  palm.  That's 
 going  to  be  about  half  the  size  of  that. 
 And  then  tear  down.  That  way  when  you're 
 looking  at  it,  you  have  this  great 
 waterfall  effect  all  the  way  to  the 
 space.  That's  what's  going  to  give  you 
 the  walls  around  the  patio  or  the  pool 
 area.  It's  going  to  give  you  that 
 structure.  It's  going  to  envelop  you. 
 So,  it's  really  important  to  kind  of 
 start  that  way,  especially  if  you're 
 starting  on  a  budget,  because  that's 
 going  to  do  a  great  job  of  giving  you 
 that  instantaneous  fullness.  And  then, 
 of  course,  as  things  grow  up,  then  now 
 you  can  start  popping  new  material  in 
 down  below.  And  that's  what's  great 
 about  landscaping  and  why  why  you're 
 never  done.  So,  once  you've  kind  of 
 mapped  out  the  plant  sizes  and  what 
 you're  going  to  do  there,  the  next  thing 
 to  do  is  to  start  visualizing  the  space. 
 So,  what  I  like  to  do  for  my  clients  is 
 we  create  a  full  rendering  for  them.  So, 
 it  shows  a  before  picture  and  then  kind 
 of  what  we're  thinking  about  for  the 
 space.  Now,  I  know  most  of  you  guys 
 don't  have  the  option  of  doing  a 
 rendering.  But  what  I  also  do,  even 
 though  I  have  a  rendering  in  place,  and 
 even  after  all  of  these  years  in 
 business,  I  make  sure  to  lay  everything 
 out  with  my  stakes.  If  you  guys  saw  a 
 life  in  the  day  of  last  week's  video, 
 you  know  that  I  come  out  and  mark 
 everything  with  stakes.  And  that  pretty 
 much  represents  the  trees  that  I'm  going 
 to  use  in  the  space.  That's  where  I  play 
 and  adjust.  I  make  sure  that  those 
 stakes  represent  exactly  the  locations 
 of  where  I  want  those  trees  to  go  within 
 inches.  And  I  kind  of  base  it  on  the 
 seating  sections,  the  the  front  door 
 outdoor  outside  the  kitchen  window,  the 
 main  areas  that  you're  going  to  seat  and 
 relax  to  make  sure  that  I'm  using  the 
 budget  wisely.  You  guys  want  to  make 
 sure  that  if  you're  investing  in  these 
 trees  and  these  plants  that  gosh,  you're 
 getting  the  best  view  from  the  areas 
 that  are  used  the  most.  And  that's  why 
 symmetry  is  so  important  or  in  some 
 cases  lack  thereof  of  symmetry.  Like  for 
 instance,  in  this  backyard  pool  area,  we 
 have  a  very  defined  pool  space,  a  very 
 rectangular  pool  space,  and  then  we  have 
 a  pretty  narrow  planting  bed  all  the  way 
 around  it.  So,  we  really  needed  to  be 
 careful  of  how  we  were  going  to  use  that 
 space.  You  want  symmetry  because  you 
 want  to  make  sure  that  the  features,  the 
 wall,  the  structures  alone,  all  the  big 
 material  kind  of  has  really  good  balance 
 and  flow  all  the  way  through.  And  I  know 
 those  of  you  guys  who  are  thinking, 
 gosh,  I  want  that  jungle.  I  want  it 
 layer  on  layer  and  I  want,  you  know,  I 
 want  it  to  feel  more  flowy.  I  want  it  to 
 feel  more  organic.  I  promise  you,  you 
 can  do  that  after  this  step.  This  step 
 to  me  is  one  of  the  most  important  steps 
 because  once  you  get  these  key  things  in 
 place,  then  you  can  have  different 
 layouts,  you  can  have  different  accents, 
 different  features  that  are  going  to 
 kind  of  give  you  more  of  that  jungle 
 vibe,  but  keeping  the  walls  and 
 everything  together.  So,  in  this 
 particular  area,  we  have  a  very  clean 
 line  pool  design,  which  I  am  in  love 
 with.  I  absolutely  love  Eugene  and 
 Nikki's  pool.  This  is  just  such  a  great 
 use  of  space  back  here.  However,  if  I'm 
 creating  symmetry  where  I  have  a  tree  in 
 this  corner  and  a  tree  in  this  corner, 
 trees  this  way,  and  everything  lines  up 
 this  way.  And  know  the  challenge  can 
 come  in  where  the  pool  is  not  exactly 
 symmetrical,  where  we  have  a  lift  on  one 
 side  of  it  and  it  kind  of  tears  down  on 
 another  side  of  it.  Usually  hot  tubs 
 have  a  rise  in  elevation,  which  is 
 fabulous,  but  when  that  happens,  you 
 want  to  make  sure  that  that  area  has  a 
 little  bit  more  lushness.  That  area  has 
 a  little  bit  more  nestling.  You  kind  of 
 want  to  take  that  and  lift  the  space  and 
 kind  of  work  with  it.  Go  with  it.  Yes, 
 you  want  symmetry  there,  but  you  also 
 want  to  work  with  what  the  elevations 
 give  you.  So,  when  an  elevation  pops  up, 
 so  does  your  landscaping.  You  want  to 
 engulf  that.  You  want  to  kind  of  nestle 
 that,  create  kind  of  more  of  an  intimate 
 spot.  And  I  tend  to  always  do  that  when 
 it  comes  to  hot  tubs  or  or  jacuzzi  areas 
 because  or  waterfall  sections,  anything 
 with  a  rise  like  that.  I  kind  of  want  to 
 envelop  it  because  that's  what  gives  you 
 that  resort-like  feel.  And  that's  what  I 
 love  that  the  resorts  do  so  so  well. 
 They  really  make  sure  to  capitalize  on 
 all  the  money  that  was  spent  on  whatever 
 feature  they  have.  If  they  put  in  a 
 waterfall,  you  can  guarantee  that  bad 
 boy  is  enveloped  by  beautiful  palm 
 frrons  that  are  overhanging  it  to  give 
 it  that  natural  look.  If  they've  got  a 
 very  contemporary  pool  feel  like  this, 
 you  can  guarantee  that  they  put  the  more 
 expensive  item.  Maybe  it's  that  cool  red 
 cone  ginger.  They  nestled  it  into  the 
 corner  and  pul  put  some  palm  trees 
 around  it.  You  know,  those  are  the  areas 
 that  you  pay  a  little  closer  attention 
 to  because  that's  where  you're  going  to 
 get  the  biggest  bang  for  the  buck.  So, 
 you  want  to  make  sure  to  be  intentional 
 about  the  space.  You  can  take  a  piece  of 
 paper  and  you  can  take  a  CAD  plan  and 
 you  can  put  a  tree  here,  here,  here, 
 here,  and  make  it  all  make  sense  on  the 
 picture.  But  when  you're  working  with  a 
 space,  when  you're  working  with  roof 
 lines  for  a  front  yard,  when  you're 
 working  with  waterfalls  or  you're 
 working  with  hot  tubs  for  backyard  pool 
 areas,  you  want  to  be  intentional.  Work 
 with  what  that  space  is  giving  you.  And 
 then  take  it  a  whole  another  level.  Just 
 really  bring  in  the  big  mama  jamas  for 
 those  particular  areas  cuz  again,  that's 
 where  you're  going to  get  the  biggest 
 bang.  That  is  where  it's  really 
 important  and  that's  what  people 
 remember.  That's  what  kind  of  gives  you 
 that  atmosphere  takes  you  from  a  nice 
 landscaping  to  a  resort  landscaping.  But 
 now  on  to  the  next  tip.  But  before  we  go 
 any  further,  before  you  plant  anything 
 here,  it's  an  ideal  time  to  go  ahead  and 
 put  your  root  barrier  in.  If  you're 
 starting  with  a  blank  canvas,  it's  easy 
 to  access  the  ground.  Go  ahead  and  put 
 your  root  barrier  in.  There's  so  many 
 different  varieties  available  on  the 
 market.  I'll  be  sure  to  list  some  of  my 
 favorites  on  the  screen.  You  want  to 
 make  sure  that  you  have  some  access  to 
 it  because  so  many  times  those  root 
 barriers  are  20,  24  in  deep.  So  having 
 protection  along  a  foundation  of  a  pool 
 area  is  a  great  thing  to  do.  Some  of 
 these  palm  trees,  especially  if  you're 
 really  going  to  give  you  that  jungle 
 vibe,  are  going  to  have  big  canopies, 
 which  means  big  roots.  So,  to  prevent, 
 you  know,  anything  cracking  pipes  and 
 whatnot,  you  kind  of  want  to  do  a  root 
 barrier  along  the  foundation  of  those 
 trees  or  right  along  the  foundation  of 
 the  pool  wall  itself.  But  now,  let's 
 talk  about  what's  going  into  the  ground. 
 Now,  you're  getting  ready  to  put  your 
 trees  in.  You're  digging  your  holes.  How 
 to  prep  that  for  best  success.  So,  you 
 guys  know  that  I  I  am  a  big  fan  of 
 making  sure  that  the  ground  has  really 
 good  soil  to  work  with.  In  Florida,  we 
 have  a  mixture  of  whether  it's  silver 
 sandy  soil  or  it's  clay  and  marl  that 
 we're  dealing  with.  You  kind  of  have  to 
 modify  it  no matter  what  soil  conditions 
 that  you  have  when  you're  in  Florida. 
 Just  to  kind  of  give  you  a  visual  on 
 this,  my  key  mix  is  50%  black  cow.  So, 
 that's  about  a  middle  of  your  bucket 
 line  here.  Then,  I  use  25%  Pete  Moss  and 
 then  25%  pine  bark  nuggets.  Mix  it  all 
 together.  The  hole  is  dug  and  ready. 
 It's  a  little  bit  deeper  than  what  I 
 need  in  reality.  So,  I'll  dig  the  hole  a 
 little  deeper  and  quite  a  bit  wider.  And 
 all  I  do  is  make  sure  that  that  tree 
 brute  ball  fits  sticks  up  about  3  in  out 
 of  the  ground.  I  take  that  soil  mixture 
 and  I  mix  it  all  the  way  around  back 
 filling  with  as  much  of  that  soil  that  I 
 need  depending  on  the  size  of  the  plant 
 or  the  tree  or  the  root  ball  if  it's  a 
 big  giant  tree.  That  is  a  huge  huge  huge 
 thing  to  do.  I  also  will  mix  in  palm 
 tone.  This  is  one  of  my  favorite  things 
 to  work  with,  something  that  does  not 
 burn  your  roots.  You  can  kind  of  take 
 that  and  just  dabble  that  all  down  below 
 in  the  hole  and  then  back  fill.  You're 
 going  to  use  that  soil  and  the  soil 
 that's  remaining  to  fill  around  those 
 edges.  That's  the  reason  why  you  want 
 your  tree  to  stick  up  about  3  in  above 
 ground  because  that  soil  that  we  use, 
 that  mixture  that  we  use  will  kind  of 
 compact  over  time  and  you  definitely 
 don't  want  a  tree  to  have  any  kind  of 
 divots.  So,  give  yourself  some  breathing 
 room.  Plant  your  trees  a  little  bit 
 high.  It's  a  little  bit  less  digging 
 that  you  have  to  do.  So,  why  not  plant 
 them  a  little  bit  higher?  But,  as  I 
 always  say,  you've  heard  this  phrase  if 
 you're  a  gardener  so  many  times,  put  a 
 $5  tree  into  a  $20  hole  and  you  will 
 have  success.  I  know  it  sounds  like  an 
 expensive  landscaping,  but  that  is  the 
 way  to  do  it.  That's  the  ratio.  Put  a 
 smaller  tree  in,  but  definitely  work 
 with  good  soil  mixture.  And  then  you're 
 probably  wondering,  you  know,  now  that 
 you  kind  of  have  these  steps  and  you 
 kind  of  have  some  ideas  of  when  is  the 
 best  time  to  start  here  in  Florida.  I 
 would  say  there's  not  really  the  perfect 
 time  to  start.  You  know,  if  you  could 
 plant  within  the  rainy  season,  then 
 that's  really  going  to  be  great  for  your 
 plants.  It's  really  going  to  get 
 everything  off  to  a  fabulous  start. 
 However,  if  you're  planting  in  the 
 winter,  then  that's  not  a  bad  time 
 either  because  that's  that  gives  your 
 plants  and  trees  a  little  bit  of  a  rest, 
 a  little  bit  of  rest  bit  where  you're 
 not  constantly  having  to  water  things  in 
 to  kind  of  get  established.  And  then  if 
 you're  planting  in  the  summer,  then  you 
 know,  our  thunderstorms,  our  afternoon 
 thunderstorms  are  going  to  be  an  ideal 
 time  frame.  So  what  I  would  say  is  try 
 to  avoid  if  you  can  where  the  heat  index 
 shoots  straight  up.  Even  the  end  of 
 July,  August,  September,  that  can  be  a 
 little  bit  of  a  tough  time  period.  If 
 you  are  weekend  warriors  out  there  and 
 you  don't  mind  hand  watering  and  doing  a 
 little  bit  extra  care,  then  it's  never  a 
 bad  time  to  plant  in  Florida  because  we 
 are  in  such  a  great  growing  season. 
 That's  a  perfect  time  to  get  things 
 going  and  really  taking  off.  So  I  hope 
 in  today's  video  it  helps  give  you  guys 
 that  one  step  closer,  one  foot  forward 
 of  like,  hey,  I  can  do  this.  I  can  take 
 it  now  from  the  blank  slate  that  I'm 
 seeing  from  and  start  playing  with  those 
 poles.  Kind  of  get  them  envisioning  what 
 you're  looking  at.  Put  those  guys  out 
 there.  Go  inside  your  house.  Look  at  it 
 different  times  of  the  day.  Just  make 
 sure  that  you're  really  happy  with  the 
 layout  that  you're  coming  from.  And  then 
 find  the  symmetry  off  that.  So  once  you 
 say,  "Okay,  this  is  my  focal  point.  This 
 is  my  focal  point.  Now  bring  those  two 
 things  together."  That's  what's  really 
 going  to  be  your  everlasting  part  of 
 your  design.  That's  what's  really  going 
 to  bring  it  all  together.  Trust  me,  you 
 can  get  jazzy.  You  can  get  creative.  You 
 can  bring  in  drifts  of  this  and  drifts 
 of  that  to  kind  of  give  you  more  of  that 
 wild  feel,  but  definitely  get  that 
 structure  in  place.  So,  I  hope  I  stress 
 that  enough.  That's  kind  of  why  I  wanted 
 to  mention  it  again  because  to  me,  that 
 is  such  an  important  part  of  getting  the 
 proper  design  for  the  right  space.  It's 
 that's  what  I  love  about  our  design 
 process  because  we  want  to  make  sure  to 
 customize  it  to  your  location.  It's  got 
 to  hit  the  corners  perfectly.  It's  got 
 to  be  the  focal  point  on  the  jacuzzi 
 area,  maybe  the  entrance  to  the  back 
 patio  area.  I  want  to  bring  focus  to  it, 
 bring  attention  to  it.  Those  are 
 important  things  to  kind  of  make  sure  to 
 incorporate  when  you're  thinking  about 
 your  outdoor  space.  And  that'll  make  it 
 an  area  that  you  just  want  to  live  in. 
 And  that's  the  goal,  right?  Make  it  your 
 resort.  Make  your  outdoor  space  your  own 
 private  oasis.  That  way,  you're 
 vacationing  out  here.  You're 
 entertaining  out  here.  You're  proud  to 
 be  out  here  with  friends  and  family  and 
 enjoy  that  area.  That's  the  gold  I  think 
 that  we're  all  trying  to  create  is  our 
 own  bit  of  ambiance  because,  you  know, 
 we're  all  busy.  We  all  work  like  crazy. 
 And  I  think  having  that  space  that's 
 your  own,  it's  the  jewel.  It's  the  icing 
 on  the  cake.  So,  I  hope  this  video 
 helps.  Anything  that  you  guys  have 
 question  wise  about  this  type  of  design 
 process,  please  leave  it  in  the  comments 
 down  below.  Those  of  you  guys  who  need 
 more  than  this  kind  of  inspiration,  then 
 hit  us  up  because  we  do  landscape  design 
 installation,  landscape  design  only,  and 
 virtual  consults  and  we'd  be  happy  to 
 meet  with  you.  So,  I'll  put  all  that 
 information  down  below  and  flash  it  up 
 here  on  the  screen  for  a  screenshot.  All 
 right,  you  guys.  If  you  enjoyed  today's 
 video,  then  you  will  enjoy  last  week's 
 video,  which  is  ultimate  privacy  in  a 
 backyard.  Typical  suburban  backyard 
 turned  out  gorgeous.  Thank  you  guys  so 
 much.  See  you  next  weekend.  Take  care.

---

 Well,  hello  gardeners.  Welcome  back. 
 Today  is  all  about  maintenance  or  lack 
 thereof  maintenance.  So,  we're  in  my 
 backyard  space.  And  the  reason  why  I'm 
 doing  today's  video  is  because  I  had 
 somebody  come  over  yesterday  picking 
 something  up  from  marketplace,  of 
 course,  and  they  said,  "Oh  my  god,  who 
 would  have  thought  this  backyard  was 
 back  here  in  this  typical  subdivision, 
 right?  You  must  spend  every  single 
 weekend  in  your  backyard  nipping  and 
 clipping  and  trimming  and  doing  all  the 
 things  that  need  to  be  done  to  maintain 
 a  yard  like  this."  And  I  thought,  let  me 
 share  with  you  guys  what's  involved  with 
 the  maintenance  on  this  kind  of 
 planting,  this  kind  of  garden,  this  kind 
 of  tropical  forest.  Some  of  these  tips 
 and  tricks  can  help  you  kind  of  create 
 more  of  a  cove  field,  create  more  of 
 like  a  jungle  field  that  is  going  to 
 give  you  a  lot  lot  less  work.  And  I'm 
 just  going  to  tell  you  my  techniques  and 
 why  that  is.  Grab  your  cup  of  coffee  or 
 your  glass  of  wine,  depending  on  the 
 time  of  the  day  it  is  for  you,  and  we 
 are  going  to  jump  right  into  this  video. 
 Let's  get  started  with  the  roof  line, 
 the  upper  area.  Now,  by  creating  shade 
 in  your  garden,  whatever  you  choose  to 
 use,  whether  it's  a  canopy  tree,  a 
 hardwood  tree,  or  what  I've  done  here 
 with  palm  trees,  that  is  going  to  be  the 
 very  first  thing  to  do  to  change  the 
 microclimates.  And  why  that's  so 
 important  is  because  the  less  sunlight 
 on  the  inside  of  your  garden,  the  more 
 you're  able  to  create  that  thick,  dense 
 plant  grouping,  that  thick,  dense  jungle 
 floor  down  below  that's  going  to  give 
 you  that  jungle  inspired  vibe.  I  love 
 palm  trees.  I  love  fast  growing  palm 
 trees  like  coconut  palms,  like  a  palms, 
 triangle  palms.  Those  are  a  few  of  the 
 palms  that  I  have  that  are  my  upper 
 canopy  palm  trees.  Those  are  the  things 
 that  are  going  to  allow  me  to  bring  in 
 my  shorter  palms,  my  more  exotic  palms. 
 when  you're  thinking  about  hedge 
 trimming  and  gardening  and  shaping  and 
 clipping  and  and  everything  that  needs 
 to  be  done  with  that,  that  is  a  lot  less 
 time  involved  in  doing  those  kind  of 
 things  versus  the  continuation  of 
 monthly  garden  service.  And  what  those 
 canopy  trees  offer  you  is  the  allowance 
 to  put  in  a  lush,  thick  network  of  plant 
 groupings  or  plant  combinations  that  are 
 going  to  give  you  an  abundance  of  color, 
 an  abundance  of  that  tropical  feel  with 
 very,  very  little  work.  Like  for 
 instance,  look  what  we  have  here.  I  love 
 this  is  the  end  of  my  garden  right  here. 
 A  nice  bright  spot  of  color  with  the 
 Sesia.  Now  Sesia  are  notorious  for 
 fillers.  They're  big  growers.  So  why  is 
 that  so  low  maintenance  in  my  garden?  Is 
 because  it  is  the  perfect  braided 
 combination  of  plants.  This  area  I  put 
 in  a  little  swath  of  this  and  it  fills 
 all  the  gaps.  So  it  really  gives  you 
 almost  like  a  forest  floor  of  thickness 
 and  denseness.  And  what  that  does  is  it 
 eliminates  the  chance  of  weeds  coming 
 in.  Anything  else  kind  of  coming  through 
 them.  It  becomes  a  sea  of  just  one  thing 
 in  this  grouping.  And  all  I  have  to  do 
 is  just  make  sure  that  one  limb  here  and 
 there  is  just  not  going  to  grow  into 
 another  one.  Like  you  know,  I  like  that 
 this  is  an  ending  point  right  here 
 before  you  get  into  my  farfugeiums.  So 
 if  I  had  a  limb  that  came  over  here,  I 
 would  just  simply  clip  that  limb.  And 
 you  can  kind  of  do  do  what  you  like  with 
 these  guys.  You  can  really  give  them  any 
 kind  of  haircut.  They're  such  a  simple 
 little  plant  to  work  with,  but  because 
 they're  in  a  such  a  nice  collection,  a 
 nice  tight  grouping,  it  really  gives  you 
 that  tropical  vibe  and  covers  all  of 
 that  groundwork.  So  any  leaves  or  limbs 
 or  anything  that  falls  just  below  this 
 big  giant  leaf  on  this,  you  don't  see. 
 You  don't  you  don't  have  to  constantly 
 rake.  You  don't  have  to  constantly  just 
 kind  of  make  sure  everything  is 
 manicured  and  pruned.  It  really  gives 
 you  a  just  nice  cover  of  tropical 
 foliage.  And  I  have  a  lot  of  areas  in  my 
 garden  that  are  just  like  that  because 
 when  you  have  a  lot  of  tree  material, 
 you  have  a  lot  of  fronds,  a  lot  of 
 leaves,  you're  going  to  get  dropage. 
 Now,  along  my  walkway  and  through  the 
 front  yard,  those  leaves  and  debris  that 
 fall  from  birds  and  whatnot  and 
 clippings,  those  are  all  visible  and  all 
 scene.  So,  I'm  either  blowing  them  out, 
 pulling  them  up,  or  picking  out  the  the 
 weeds  from  in  between  because  there's 
 nothing  there  to  catch  that.  There's 
 nothing  there  to  disguise  that.  So 
 having  something  like  these  guys  or 
 aglionas  or  like  the  burl  marks  that  I 
 have  down  below,  having  a  collection  of 
 plant  groupings  doesn't  allow  for 
 anything  else  to  get  in  there.  It  really 
 gives  you  that  dense  kind  of  bit  of  a 
 blanket.  And  that's  kind  of  what  my 
 whole  garden  goes  from.  It  goes  from 
 these  guys  here.  The  only  maintenance 
 that  I  have  is  separating  the  species. 
 So  I  just  have  a  little  break  between 
 each  plant  species.  I'll  just  take  one 
 little  clipping  off  and  then  make  sure 
 that  they're  not  touching.  And  that's 
 all  you  have  to  do  is  just  make  sure 
 that  one  is  not  intruding  on  the  other. 
 I  mean,  too  much  because  I  do  like  a 
 little  bit  of  of  cuddling.  You  want  that 
 kind  of  mesh.  You  want  that  garden  floor 
 because  in  nature,  that's  exactly  how 
 things  grow.  You'll  see  in  those 
 beautiful  forests  how  the  ferns  cover 
 all  of  that  ground.  Now,  that  prevents 
 new  growth  from  popping  up  and  it 
 prevents  weeds  and  whatnot  from  taking 
 over  and  filling  up  that  area  because 
 you  don't  have  any  sun  exposure  that 
 blocks  out  anything  like  that.  And  then 
 these  are  heavily  rooted  plants.  Things 
 like  croins,  things  like  burlarks, 
 cesia,  agonymas,  their  root  system  is  so 
 good  that  they  really  knit  together 
 underneath  and  knit  together  above  which 
 does  a  great  job  of  preventing  anything 
 from  down  below  to  sprout  up.  That 
 allows  for  that  tropical  feel  to  that 
 garden.  But  you  can't  have  that  unless 
 you  have  the  cover  that  protects  those 
 particular  plants.  And  that's  why  more 
 of  a  filtered  light  or  a  shade  garden  is 
 going  to  be  a  lot  less  maintenance. 
 Right  over  here  on  this  side,  I  have  my 
 centerpiece  tree,  which  is  my  triple 
 bottle  palm.  You  guys  know  how  I  feel 
 about  my  bottle  palms.  They're  just  so 
 fun.  Down  below,  I  have  the  dwarf 
 Taiwanese  exora.  These  guys  bloom  10 
 months  out  of  the  year,  give  you  great 
 color,  but  are  such  a  slow  growing 
 little  leafed  plant  that  require  very 
 little  care  because  of  how  slow  they 
 grow.  I  mean,  I  literally  trim  them 
 about  three  times  a  year.  And  then  I 
 balance  them  out  with  these  icon  croins. 
 And  croins  in  general  are  going  to  be  on 
 your  slower  growing  maintenance  plan. 
 So,  if  you  guys  like  the  look  of  croins, 
 then  you  are  in  for  a  lowmaintenance 
 landscaping  because  this  painted  leaf 
 offers  very,  very  little  care.  Song  of 
 India  droenas  down  below.  Again,  a 
 perfect  lanus  plant.  You  only  trim  what 
 you  don't  want.  A  couple  times  a  year,  I 
 will  just  nip  off.  One  that  gets  a 
 little  bit  too  tall.  So  that  way,  these 
 connect  fully  and  become  a  nice  little 
 3-FFT  ground  cover.  I  do  this  because 
 these  guys  as  they  get  a  little  bit 
 taller  are  going  to  have  a  little  bit  of 
 a  legggininess  to  the  bottom,  and  this 
 is  going  to  cover  that.  This  is  going  to 
 be  my  skirt  grouping.  And  then  of 
 course,  look  at  this  leaf  color 
 together.  It's  just  so  stunning.  The 
 light  and  the  dark  combinations  are  just 
 gorgeous  together.  So,  let's  move  on 
 over  here  to  a  tad  bit  higher 
 maintenance.  And  why?  So,  anything 
 blooming  is  going  to  be  on  your  higher 
 maintenance  side.  I  had  softened  this 
 little  area.  So,  I  have  a  tree  jasmine. 
 This  gets  great  great  sun,  gets  the  heat 
 off  the  deck,  so  it  gets  tons  and  tons 
 and  tons  of  blaring  sun  and  it's  happy. 
 It  is  blooming  like  crazy,  but  it 
 constantly  drops  old  blooms  everywhere. 
 So  that  is  one  of the  higher  maintenance 
 plants  that  I  have  in  my  gardens  because 
 I  have  no  protection.  If  I  put  something 
 over  top  of  this,  I'd  have  this 
 beautiful  green  foliage  but  very,  very 
 little  blooming  on  that  and  that  would 
 minimize  the  maintenance.  The  next  thing 
 that  I  have  that  gets  such  great  sun  is 
 that  Madagascar  palm  right  there. 
 And  you  can  see  when  it's  in  full  bloom, 
 oh  my  gosh,  is  just  a  stunner.  I  mean, 
 it  is  so  such  a  focal  point  that  I've 
 kind  of  made  it  the  centerpiece  of  my 
 rock  garden  right  here.  But  because  of 
 those  blooms,  it's  constantly  holding 
 brown  blooms  above  and  then  it  causes 
 this  area  to  be  a  little  bit  higher 
 maintenance  because  of  all  of  that 
 droppage,  the  droppage  on  the  deck  and 
 whatnot.  Keep  that  in  mind  on  what  trees 
 that  you're  going  to  plant.  If  you're 
 going  to  have  a  heavy  blooming  garden, 
 whether  it's  a  butterfly  garden  or  it's 
 a  cod  style  garden  and  you  still  want  to 
 do  that  mass  plant  grouping,  you  can 
 absolutely  get  a  big  benefit  and  big 
 beautiful  impact  from  that  kind  of 
 gardening,  but  it's  going  to  be  on  the 
 higher  end  of  maintenance.  So,  if  you 
 can  do  more  painted  leaves,  more 
 variegated  leaves,  which  are  usually 
 things  that  that  do  require  a  little  bit 
 of  protection,  do  require  some  shade. 
 Hence  why  this  section  of  my  garden, 
 even  though  it  has  way  more  plants  than 
 probably  the  rest  of  the  yard,  it  is  a 
 lot  less  care  because  of  that  reason, 
 because  of  all  of  this  ground  foliage 
 that  we  have.  I  mean,  just  look  at  how 
 many  different  species  we  have  right  in 
 this  area.  This  penanga,  which  is  a  slow 
 grower  palm,  this  penanga  coronada, 
 absolutely  stunner  multi-  trunk  little 
 palm  tree.  I  wouldn't  been  able  to 
 incorporate  this  palm  tree  had  I  not  had 
 the  triangle  and  the  coconut  palms  and 
 the  ora  palms  around  it  because  it  would 
 have  been  far  too  much  sun  and  I'd  be 
 constantly  helping  this  tree  survive  by 
 adding  tons  of  water  to  it,  tons  of 
 micronutrients  to  it  to  kind  of  get  it 
 to  be  happy  and  healthy.  Now  with  the 
 protection  and  it  being  the  undergrowth 
 to  those  trees,  it  is  thriving.  It  is 
 beautiful.  It's  doing  super  super  well 
 in  its  first  year  in  the  garden.  It's 
 probably  grown  probably  more  than  more 
 than  they  said  that  it  should  grow.  So, 
 but  it  is  absolutely  stunner.  And  then 
 just  down  below,  look  at  the  dense 
 foliage  of  all  of  this  agonas.  I  mean,  I 
 just  trim  them  so  very  little  and  they 
 do  exactly  what  I  want  them  to  do.  I 
 would  put  them  everywhere  if  I  could. 
 They  are  a  bit  pricey,  but  they  are  the 
 perfect  jungle  floor  to  a  shady 
 environment  because  they  really  do  a 
 great  job  of  multiplying  and  densing, 
 becoming  a  dense  plant  without  being  too 
 crazy  where  you're  constantly  having  to 
 keep  them  up.  They  grow  slow  enough  to 
 make  that  happen.  And  then  we  have  some 
 ground  orchids  right  in  through  here. 
 Look  how  you  just  don't  see  the  floor  of 
 the  garden  and  that  is  kind  of  the 
 reason  for  it.  I've  been  able  to  put  in 
 some  more  exotic  tropical  trees  in  here 
 because  of  the  shade  included  in  this 
 backyard  space.  So,  that  is  a  key  to 
 creating  this  type  of  look.  The  more  sun 
 you  get,  the  more  care  is  involved,  the 
 more  trimming,  the  more  shaping,  even 
 the  more  fertilizing.  Because  most  of 
 the  time  when  you  have  sun,  a  lot  of  the 
 plants  and  choices  and  tree  choices  that 
 you're  going  to  have  to  work  with  are 
 going  to  be  bloomers,  which  is  great  for 
 some  people.  But  just  know  that  that  is 
 going  to  be  that's  going  to  create  quite 
 a  bit  more  work  than  this  particular 
 space  right  here.  So  when  it  comes  to  a 
 creating  a  space  very  similar  to  this, 
 get  your  roof  line  in  first.  So  get  your 
 trees  that  are  going  to  create  that 
 canopy  coverage.  Then  start  with  your 
 walls.  So  it  could  be  something  like 
 fishtail  palms  as  your  walls.  It  could 
 be  something  like  a  palms,  kucia  hedge, 
 whatever  that  might  be.  So  you  have  your 
 wall  and  you  have  your  roof  line  in. 
 Now,  the  only  sun  that  that  area  is  now 
 getting  is  from  the  side,  which  is  the 
 perfect  condition  for  plant  groupings 
 like  this.  And  you're  not  constantly 
 fighting  with  having  to  add  tons  and 
 tons  of  water  to  it  and  tons  of 
 fertilizer  to  it  to  keep  that  tree 
 healthy  because  it's  in  an  environment 
 that  it's  always  battling.  It's  almost 
 like  it's  got  the  flu.  You  got  to  keep 
 the  immune  system  up  on  those  varieties 
 of  trees  if  they're  not  in  the  perfect 
 conditions.  If  you're  worried  about 
 weeds,  because  I  get  this  question  all 
 the  time,  how  do  you  battle  the  weeds?  I 
 do  not.  I  do  not  battle  any  weeds  in 
 this  part  of  my  garden.  I  have  tons  of 
 ground  cover  that  creates  a  such  a 
 knitting  effect  that  doesn't  allow  any 
 sunlight.  Pretty  much  gives  me  that 
 beautiful  layer  of  foliage  and  it  gives 
 you  that  kind  of  pop  of  color  without 
 without  having  to  worry  about  weeds.  So, 
 it's  just  such  an  ideal  thing  to  work 
 with.  So,  whatever  you  choose  for  your 
 upper  tree  canopy,  whatever  you  choose 
 for  your  roof  line  is  going  to  allow  you 
 to  choose  quite  a  bit  more.  It's  going 
 to  open  you  up  to  more  of  a  tropical 
 scape  for  down  below.  Now,  one  of  the 
 other  things  that  I  want  to  mention  as 
 far  as  maintenance  goes  in  a  backyard 
 space.  Now,  this  isn't  for  everybody, 
 but  I  love  the  use  of  stone.  Whether 
 it's  stone  just  bordering  the  edge  of  a 
 planting  bed,  I'll  do  that  commonly  in 
 gardens  where  we  have  foliage  like  this 
 where  it's  layered  and  it's  thick  and 
 it's  tropical,  but  then  we  want  to  kind 
 of  give  it  a  nice  clean  finish  line, 
 like  a  pristine  little  border.  Then  I'll 
 take  and  do  a  twoft  curved  border  of 
 stone  edged  with  like  either  a  natural 
 edging  like  you  see  here  or  we'll  use 
 something  like  the  buta  edging  like  you 
 see  here 
 or  I'll  use  the  aluminum  alloy  edging. 
 Whatever  it  calls  for  for  that 
 particular  spot.  That's  kind  of  what 
 I'll  use  because  I  kind  of  want  a  garden 
 where  it  is  like  I  always  say  the  crazy 
 is  in  the  back,  the  party  is  in  the  back 
 and  then  have  something  really 
 controlled  to  the  front.  What  I  love 
 about  that  kind  of  feel  is  it  gives  you 
 more  of  a  pristine  kind  of  more  of  that 
 resort-like  feel  when  you  have  a  nice 
 border  of  stone  or  can  incorporate  a 
 lush  border  because  you  go  from  all  this 
 heavy  crazy  wild  to  very  very  clean 
 lines  that  kind  of  keeps  all  of  that 
 paired  back.  So,  if  that's  a  look  that 
 you  like,  kind  of  keep  that  in  mind 
 because  when  you  have  a  stone  area  and 
 you  don't  have  a  bunch  of  plants  in  that 
 stone  bed,  it's  a  lot  easier  maintenance 
 than  you  think  because  we  have  a  good 
 amount  of  weed  barrier  pin  down  below 
 and  then  it's  edged  along  the  side.  So, 
 this  becomes  almost  like  a  ground  floor. 
 This  becomes  very  compact,  very,  very 
 dense  and  I  don't  have  to  worry  about  it 
 if  I  get  a  weed  here  and  there.  Very 
 easy  to  pull  because  it's  just  a  top 
 layered  weed.  It's  not  something  that's 
 coming  from  the  ground  up  and  then  I 
 don't  have  plants  in  there  that  are 
 causing  a  network  of  roots.  So,  and 
 that's  what  makes  it  low  maintenance.  If 
 there  are  plants  in  there,  it  would  make 
 it  a  higher  maintenance  planting  bed. 
 That's  a  great  way  to  take  a  jungle  vibe 
 and  then  polish  it  a  little  bit  with 
 stone.  I  love  using  Mexican  beach 
 pebbles  as  that  border.  You  can  use 
 other  decorative  kind  of  rock  as  that 
 border,  but  whatever  that  might  be  that 
 kind  of  gives  you  that,  you  know,  it 
 kind  of  gives  you  that  flare,  that 
 little  tropical  vibe  there.  And  another 
 way  to  make  your  garden  interesting  with 
 little  care  would  be  incorporate  pots  in 
 there.  Not  baby  pots,  not  little  pots, 
 but  definitely  some  bigger  pots.  So,  I 
 have  a  pot  in  my  garden.  I  have  several 
 pots  in  the  front  yard  garden.  It  is  a 
 way  to  keep  a  plant  that  you  might  like 
 that  maybe  is  is  a  difficult  plant. 
 Maybe  it's  a  plant  that  likes  to  run  or 
 likes  to  take  off  in  the  garden,  but  you 
 definitely  love  the  idea  of  having  that 
 front  or  that  look  in  the  garden  space 
 and  you  want  to  keep  it  controlled.  A 
 pot  is  a  great  way  to  do  that. 
 incorporate  it  right  into  the  garden. 
 Now,  this  is  a  tree  stump  that  I  had  to 
 take  out.  So,  there's  a  flat  stump 
 underneath  there.  So,  I  wanted  something 
 with  some  impact  coming  from  that  spot, 
 but  I  couldn't  plant  anything  there, 
 hence  the  pot.  So,  this  was  another 
 alternate  option  because  I  wanted  a  dune 
 palm  to  stand  and  crown  over  top  of 
 these  croins.  As  these  croins  really 
 grow  into  this  space,  the  natural  clay 
 pots  do  a  great  job  of  releasing  water. 
 They  don't  tend  to  clog  nearly  as  much 
 as  the  other  pots.  Do  it  correctly,  of 
 course.  We  always  use  cheesecloth  at  the 
 bottom,  some  stone  next  layer,  and  then 
 cheesecloth  again,  and  then  our  soil. 
 So,  it's  like  a  lasagna,  you  guys.  Just 
 kind  of  function  it  that  way.  And  I 
 think  that  always  had  great  success  with 
 our  pots  in  that  type  of  way.  But 
 incorporate  them  into  the  garden.  God 
 forbid  we  get  one  of  those  freezes  once 
 or  twice  a  year.  You  pull  that  bad  boy 
 out,  put  it  in  the  garage  for  the  night, 
 and  then  the  rest  of  the  year  she's 
 golden  in  the  ground.  So,  that  is  an 
 ideal  thing.  But  if  you  have  those  plant 
 stands  that  have  holes  in  them  and  you 
 have  landscape  lighting,  put  the  plant 
 stand  over  top  of  the  landscape 
 lighting,  it'll  shine  that  whole  pot.  It 
 is  just  such  a  stunner.  I've  done  that 
 in  different  projects  where  I've  had 
 that  opportunity  to  do  that.  All  my 
 clients  think  that's  brilliant  and  it 
 really  does  shine.  I'll  kind  of  get 
 Bryce  to  pop  up  an  example  of  what  that 
 looks  like  and  you  can  incorporate  that 
 all  the  way  through  your  garden.  It  just 
 kind  of  gives  you  a  little bit  of  gleam 
 and  also  gives  you  a  little  bit  of 
 different  interest  because  you  know  all 
 those  plant  stands  are  so  different  from 
 each  other.  So,  you  know,  just  as  kind 
 of  like  a  recap  on  what  we  talked  about 
 today,  you  guys.  Just  because  you  want  a 
 jungle  inspired  garden  does  not  mean  you 
 have  to  be  out  in  the  garden  every 
 single  weekend  or  even  every  single 
 month.  I  am  in  my  garden  about  three 
 times  a  year  on  average.  You  do  some 
 trimming,  you  do  some  light  foliage.  I 
 would  say  if  you  can  do  like  a  an  80% 
 count  when  it  comes  to  your  trees.  So, 
 your  your  tall  trees,  your  accent  trees, 
 your  wall,  whatever  that  is.  If  it's 
 more  palms,  that's  going  to  give  you 
 less  work  or  less  care  in  the  garden 
 because  those  things  need  to  be  trimmed 
 more  like  a  like  a  bianually  type  of 
 thing  versus  or  shrubs  or  plants  need  to 
 be  trimmed  more  often.  So,  that's  kind 
 of  how  my  garden  is  structured.  I  have 
 my  roof  line  of  my  canopy  trees.  I  have 
 my  wall  as  my  kucia  and  other  types  of 
 slow  growing  palm  trees.  And  then  I've 
 got  my  tropicals  underneath  those 
 because  they've  allowed  for  them  to  live 
 happily  underneath  that  environment, 
 underneath  the  roof  line  of  all  those 
 big  canopy  trees.  And  then  I  come  in 
 with  my  foliage.  Now,  it  looks  like  I 
 have  tons  of  foliage  in  my  garden,  but  I 
 really  don't.  I  really  just  have  a  nice 
 jam-packed  collection  of  groups.  And 
 that's  the  way  I  like  to  do  it.  You  guys 
 know  I  like  to  plant  in  drift.  So,  I'll 
 do  a  a  drift  of  Sanchezia  and  then  it 
 stops  and  breaks  and  then  a  drift  of 
 burl  marks  and  then  a  drift  of  croins. 
 had  that  go  through  the  garden  and  in 
 any  of  the  open  areas,  any  areas  that 
 you  see  in  your  garden,  as  long  as  you 
 have  some  protection,  some  good  cover, 
 fill  that  bad  boy  up  with  something  like 
 bird's  nest  fern  or  crowned  orchid  or 
 ageneemas,  anything  that's  kind  of  your 
 taste,  that's  your  style.  Make  that  your 
 ground  floor  because  that  ground  cover, 
 not  only  suppresses  weeds,  not  only  just 
 is  it  a  gorgeous  view  from  the  base  up, 
 it  gives  your  garden  that  finishing 
 touch  it  needs  where  you  don't  see  any 
 type  of  ground.  And  it  makes  the  garden 
 feel  more  expansful.  Makes  it  feel  more 
 full  because  you  have  a  carpet  as  a 
 base.  Then  you've  got  your  accents  in 
 the  middle.  Then  you've  got  cool 
 tropical  foliage  coming  out  everywhere 
 else.  And  then  you've  got  your  structure 
 trees  that  kind  of  keep  everything 
 nestled  in  together.  And  that's  the  way 
 to  create  that  jungle  vibe,  that  jungle 
 experience.  It  doesn't  need  to  be  as 
 vast  or  as  long  as  my  particular  space. 
 It  might  be  your  sideyard.  I'll  put  a 
 link  down  in  the  description  down  below 
 of  a  sideyard  jungle  inspired  walking 
 path  that  I  did.  And  it's  the  same  type 
 of  feel.  It's  it's  maybe  like  12  foot 
 wide  and  very  very  short  in  length,  but 
 it's  a  very  narrow  sideyard  that  really 
 created  that  same  kind  of  feel  where  we 
 had  shade.  We  had  pockets  of  coverage 
 where  we  could  incorporate  some  really 
 cool  foliage  because  of  what  that 
 offered.  So,  you  know,  kind  of  keep  that 
 in  mind.  And  when  it  comes  to 
 lowmaintenance,  there's  not  anything 
 lower  maintenance  than  incorporating 
 some  natural  material  in,  you  know, 
 adding  some  boulder  here  and  there,  a 
 little  bit  of  a  statue,  some  flag  stone, 
 anything  like  this.  Like  I  love  this 
 little  combination  of  ending  point  here 
 with  these  boulders  on  this  side  of  the 
 edge  ending  this  kind  of  backyard  space 
 coming  up  to  these  boulders  that  are 
 covering  up  a  stump  over  here.  I  just  I 
 like  the  way  that  that  little  inset, 
 that  little  insert  into  the  garden,  a 
 little  touch  of  a  boulder  here  and  a 
 boulder  there.  These  boulders  that  are 
 incorporated  into  the  garden,  these  are 
 things  that  are  you  can  pick  up  with 
 your  hands.  You  can  kind  of  transport 
 from  one  space  to  another.  I  love 
 bringing  them.  We  go  to  Tennessee  often. 
 That's  where  my  husband  loves  to  go  to 
 hunt.  We  go  to  Tennessee  pretty  often. 
 So,  I'm  always  coming  back  with  a 
 truckload  of  of  little  handheld  boulders 
 to  incorporate  into  my  garden  and  other 
 people's  gardens  because  I  like  that 
 look  in  the  garden.  There's  no 
 maintenance  to  it.  It  adds  just  another 
 different  element.  Just  like  I  would 
 change  a  contrast  of  a  frond  to  a  leaf 
 or  to  a  different  type  of  soft  foliage 
 to  more  dynamic  foliage.  A  boulder  does 
 the  same  kind  of  look  but  offers,  you 
 know,  no  care,  which  so  is  I  kind  of 
 kind  of  a  no-brainer,  right?  But  you  can 
 also  do  that  with  a  non-natural  material 
 in  the  garden.  Like  I  love  my  little 
 mushrooms  over  here  in  the  garden.  I 
 love  little  statues  and  whatnot.  Little 
 things  that  kind  of  just  add  a  little 
 bit  of  personality,  a  little  interest. 
 Those  are  things  that  kind  of  soften 
 that  jungle  vibe,  that  forest  vibe,  and 
 kind  of  help  you  create  more  of  that, 
 you  know,  that  that  enjoyable  walkable 
 space,  that  little  bit  of  personality  in 
 the  garden.  The  next  thing  that  we  did 
 when  we  took  out  the  grass,  creating 
 this  rock  pathway,  if  you  guys  love 
 pathways  in  your  garden,  once  the  stone 
 is  down  and  once  it's  done  properly,  it 
 is  no  fuss,  no  mus.  This  is  the  easiest 
 thing  we've  done.  We  don't  have  to  water 
 the  grass.  We  don't  have  to  cut  the 
 grass.  We  don't  have  to  worry  about  this 
 in  my  backyard.  This  walkway  has  become 
 my  backyard  swale,  my  backyard  space. 
 And  what's  great  about  it  is  it's  so 
 easy  to  maintain  and  trim  from  both 
 sides  of  my  pathway  area  here.  I  can  nip 
 and  tuck  as  I  walk  safely  through  my 
 garden  and  technically  bare  feet  if  I 
 wanted  to  and  just  nip  things  as  I  need 
 to  as  I  walk  through.  I  can  do  that  on 
 my  left  side  and  on  my  right  side.  And 
 this  is  where  all  of  my  heavy  foliage  is 
 within  just  a  few  feet  within  just  a 
 hand  reach.  the  back  side  of  my  garden. 
 You  that's  an  area  where  I'll  collect 
 old  fronds  before  my  maintenance  guy 
 picks  them  up.  This  is  an  easy  way  to 
 maintain  that.  Keep  it  an  area  to  where 
 you  can  maintain  from  the  backside  and 
 from  the  front  side.  And  then  that  way 
 that  little  bit  of  time  in  your  garden, 
 it's  easy  to  transport  with  a  little 
 wheelbarrow  and  and  do  your  trimmings 
 and  clippings  and  kind  of  keeping  it  on 
 the  lower  maintenance  end.  All right, 
 you  guys.  So,  I  know  that  was  a  lot  of 
 information  to  probably  digest.  I'm 
 hoping  that  you  got  enough  information 
 and  and  tips  through  this  video  that  it 
 might  help  you  kind  of  create  something 
 similar  into  your  own  space.  You  guys 
 have  always  been  so  kind  on  the  comments 
 on  how  much  you  love  my  outdoor  space. 
 So,  I  thought  that  let's  share  this 
 video  today  and  let  you  in  behind  the 
 scenes  on  the  lack  of  maintenance  that's 
 involved  with  a  space  like  this.  If  you 
 enjoyed  today's  video,  then  please  click 
 on  last  week's  video.  It  was  how  we 
 created  a  private  backyard  in  your 
 typical  backyard  suburban  space.  Thank 
 you  so  much.  Take  care.  to  see  you  next 
 weekend.

---

 [Music] 
 Well,  hello  true  gardeners.  Today  we  are 
 in  Vero  Beach,  Florida,  zone  10A,  and  we 
 are  all  about  privacy.  We  are  in  a 
 backyard  that  we  just  finished  last  week 
 and  pretty  much  created  instant  privacy 
 for  our  clients.  Many  of  you  guys 
 probably  have  a  very  similar  situation 
 where  you  love  your  home.  You  love  your 
 space.  However,  it  is  pretty  nice  and 
 close  and  tucked  tucked  along  your 
 neighbors.  In  this  particular  backyard, 
 what  we  really  want  to  create  is  side 
 privacy  on  both  sides.  However,  because 
 they  were  backed  up  to  the  water  line, 
 they  still  wanted  to  see  a  little  bit  of 
 a  water  view.  So,  I'm  going to  get  Bryce 
 to  slide  in  all  three  angles.  the  one 
 from  the  closest  neighbor  side  here,  the 
 one  looking  from  inside  out  so  you  can 
 still  see  a  little  bit  of  that  water 
 line  so  that  wasn't  taken  up.  It  really 
 helped  soften  some  of  the  outside  houses 
 and  roof  lines  that  are  across  the  lake. 
 And  I  know  a  lot  of  my  clients  and 
 customers  had  that  issue.  So,  I'm  sure 
 that  you  guys  are  kind  of  battling  some 
 of  the  same  things.  I  think  this  is 
 going  to  do  a  great  job  pretty 
 instantaneously.  And  then  as  everything 
 grows  in  and  fills  out  even  more.  And 
 then  the  opposite  side,  as  that  grows  in 
 and  fills  out,  that  is  really  going  to 
 create  that  privacy.  All  three  sections 
 are  a  little  bit  different.  So  I'm  going 
 to  break  it  down.  This  way  you  guys 
 really  have  a  really  good  idea  of  what 
 we  used,  um,  the  reasons  why  we  used  it, 
 the  general  growth  rate  of  how  quickly 
 things  are  going  to  go  to  get  grow 
 together,  and  then  the  overall 
 combination  of  plants  that  I  chose  for 
 this  area.  And  why?  Because  I  love  them. 
 No,  I'm  just  joking.  because  they  work 
 together.  Plants  that  work  together  that 
 live  together  and  grow  together  are  so 
 much  easier  to  maintain  because  of  the 
 perfect  collection.  So,  this  grouping  is 
 going  to  grow  together  so  beautifully, 
 give  them  that  tropical  look,  but  be  on 
 the  easier  maintenance  side  and  still 
 offer  them  a  pretty  controlled  privacy. 
 All right,  you  guys.  So,  let's  jump 
 right  in,  get  started  on  the  heavy  side. 
 All right,  you  guys.  So,  we  are  going  to 
 start  on  the  beefy  side.  So,  this  is 
 what  I  would  consider  the  widest  part  of 
 the  backyard.  We  have  a  good  amount  of 
 girth  here.  The  pool  is  over  here,  but 
 what  is  on  the  other  side  of  these 
 fishtail  palms  of  this  nice  green  wall 
 here  would  be  the  neighbors  and  their 
 more  than  likely  pool  that  they're  going 
 to  put  in.  And  you  can  kind  of  see  how 
 they're  exactly  adjacent  from  each 
 other.  And  that's  kind  of  what  my 
 clients  are  really  concerned  about  as 
 construction  goes  on.  That's  part  of  it. 
 Neighbors  are  a  part  of  it.  but  having 
 your  own  bit  of  privacy,  having  this 
 space  to  yourself,  the  space  that  you're 
 going  to  live  in,  you're  going  to  enjoy. 
 I  think  that  was  really,  really 
 important  to  John  and  Patty.  So,  that's 
 what  we  tackled  first.  And  I  can't  think 
 of  a  better  tree  that  offers  impact  and 
 density  like  the  fishtail  palm.  And 
 that's  exactly  what  we  chose  to  use 
 here.  So,  we  have  a  nice  wall  of 
 fishtail  palms.  These  are  30  gallon 
 size.  This  is  about  what  you  get  for  a 
 30-  gallallon  size.  They're  about  seven, 
 seven  and  1/2t  tall.  great  thickness  to 
 them.  These  are  planted  six  foot  on 
 center.  So  from  the  center  of  the  tree 
 over  to  the  next  center  is  6  foot. 
 That's  kind  of  how  I  like  to  place  them. 
 You  can  spread  them  a  little  further 
 apart  if  you  like  because  they  do  chunk 
 out  nice  and  wide,  but  it  just  really 
 takes  them  time.  They  tend  to  grow 
 taller  first  before  they  grow  out  wide. 
 And  then  don't  be  afraid  that  this  is 
 too  close  together  because  they  will 
 join  nice  and  tight  together,  support 
 each  other,  and  then  all  shoot  together 
 simultaneously.  All  of  a  sudden,  they 
 get  that  high  five.  Okay,  we're  here. 
 We're  connected.  Now,  let's  go  up.  Cuz 
 they're  really  just  looking  for  that 
 support  on  either  side,  that  strength. 
 So,  you  can  really  plant  these  very 
 close  together  for  quick  coverage,  and 
 that's  the  way  I  like  to  use  them 
 because  they  do  just  that.  We  are  in 
 June.  By  the  end  of  summer,  these  will 
 be  connected.  These  will  be  solid.  This 
 will  be  the  wall  they're  looking  for. 
 And  then  by  next  end  of  summer,  they're 
 going  to  be  three  foot  taller  and  start 
 to  open  up  and  kind  of  give  you  that 
 fishtail  look.  That's  when  they  really 
 take  on  their  beauty.  They're  cool  now. 
 You  kind  of  see  what  they're  going  to 
 do,  but  nothing  like  they're  going  to  be 
 a  year,  two,  three,  four  years  down  the 
 road.  That's  when  their  real  beauty 
 comes  in.  And  having  a  nice  tall  wall 
 here  of  that  will  allow  my  clients  if 
 they  want  to  take  some  of  this  grass  up 
 and  curve  another  bed  to  the  front.  They 
 can  now  bring  in  some  shade  material, 
 some  different  options  cuz  they  can 
 change  the  microclimate  because  these 
 guys  are  going  to  get  so  nice  and  tall 
 that  there's  plenty  of  room  for  some 
 added  impact  here.  Fishtail  palms  make  a 
 fabulous  wall.  And  just  in  case  you  know 
 fishtails  aren't  doing  it  for  you,  maybe 
 you  look  them  up  and  they're  just  maybe 
 a  little  bit  too  big  for  what  you  want 
 or  maybe  you  like  more  of  that  palm 
 frron  kind  of  feel.  You  can  always  do 
 the  exact  same  kind  of  vertical  wall 
 planting  with  a  palms.  Of  course,  they 
 do  get  tall.  They'll  get  all  the  way 
 into  that  30  foot  range  like  the 
 fishtails.  They'll  get  27  to  30  over 
 time.  Great  part  about  both  of  those 
 pumps  is  you  can  cut  trunks  that  you 
 don't  want.  So,  you  can  really  kind  of 
 maintain  what  you  want  of  the  tree.  But 
 I  love  the  vertical  wall  they  offer 
 without  getting  too  far  into  the  yard. 
 They  really  can  be  nice  and  tall  and 
 lean.  If  you're  in  the  shade,  you  can 
 use  something  like  cat  palms.  Those  max 
 out  around  the  10  to  11  foot  range  and 
 they  will  offer  you  a  fabulous  10  to  11 
 foot  wall.  And  then  you  guys  know  how  I 
 feel  about  the  pygmy  8  palms.  You  can 
 actually  stagger  pygmy  8  palms.  They're 
 going  to  take  more  room,  but  if  you 
 stagger  them  kind  of  overlapping  each 
 other,  they're  going  to  create  a 
 fabulous  wall  that's  going  to  end  up 
 being  around  10  to  12t,  leaving  you  room 
 at  the  bottom  to  plant.  Kucia  is  also 
 another  nice  wall  that  you  can  create 
 and,  you  know,  give  you  that 
 instantaneous  privacy.  Got  to  give  those 
 things  time  to  grow.  And  I  love  what 
 fishtails  and  ora  palms  offer  because 
 they  give  you  density  and  they  give  you 
 height  right  off  the  bat.  So  that's  kind 
 of  why  it's  my  go-to  coverage  tree.  You 
 can  see  how  narrow  this  bed  is.  There's 
 no  need  for  this  bed  to  extend  any 
 further  out.  These  guys  will  grow  in 
 this  pattern  here.  So  nice  and  vertical, 
 nice  and  tight  to  the  fence,  nice  and 
 easy  maintenance.  Just  cut  off  whatever 
 trunk  you  don't  want.  They  will  not  hold 
 it  against  you.  So  they're  a  great  tree 
 to  work  with.  As  we  got  to  this  corner, 
 I  really  wanted  to  start  opening  the  bed 
 up  a  little  bit.  This  is  kind  of  a 
 direct  view  line  for  all  the  inside 
 seating.  So,  when  you're  indoors,  when 
 you're  in  the  pool,  when  I'm  creating 
 these  designs,  I'm  sitting  at  all  those 
 places.  I'm  looking  at  the  main 
 highlight  areas.  What  are  the  sections 
 that  I  kind  of  want  to  draw  your 
 attention?  This  is  beautiful,  but  it's 
 functional.  This  here,  obviously,  we 
 want  it  functional,  but  we  want  those 
 layers  to  start  popping  in.  We  want  it 
 to  be  beautiful.  So,  we  inherited  these 
 two  Christmas  palms.  They  were  part  of 
 the  builder's  package.  These  two  were 
 kind  of  in  the  middle  of  the  yard  and 
 that  was  it.  There  was  nothing  else  to 
 it.  So,  we  took  them  out  and 
 incorporated  them  into  our  beds.  We 
 chose  a  really  good  back  fill  of  a  soil 
 mixture.  And  we  use  Palm  Saver  in  these 
 guys  to  get  them  to  pop  out  with  good 
 root  growth  and  kind  of  get  them  out  of 
 some  of  that  old  soil  and  old 
 conditioning  they  have.  You  can  see  that 
 they're  not  super  happy,  but  they're 
 going  to  get  that  way  in  no  time.  So,  we 
 use  those  two  as  our  anchor  trees  here 
 on  the  side.  And  then  we  used  a  triple 
 bottle  palm.  It's  squatted.  It's  short. 
 These  two  trees  are  going  to  almost  over 
 canopy  where  the  bottle  palm  is,  which 
 is  going  to  give  it  that  great  roof 
 line.  I  just  love  the  way  that  that's 
 going  to  come  out  and  do  that  because 
 these  guys  are  going  to  open  up  all  the 
 way  to  12  ft.  So  these  two  will  connect 
 up  here  while  this  becomes  squatted.  So 
 these  get  to  16  to  18t  overall  height. 
 This  stays  around  the  12  to  14  foot 
 depending  on  the  location  and  really 
 just  widens  out  while  these  guys  go 
 vertical  and  tall  and  a  little  bit 
 thinner.  So,  I  think  that's  going  to  be 
 a  nice  little  cove  of  planting  in  this 
 area.  Now,  this  corner  area,  there's 
 going  to  be  construction  back  there.  I 
 know  it's  kind  of  hard  to  see  cuz  we  got 
 a  lot  going  on  right  here.  And  they  knew 
 that  they  really  wanted  that  corner  to 
 be  concealed,  but  not  completely  a  whole 
 wall  of  fishtails.  I  wanted  to  break  it 
 up.  That  corner  is  an  area  that  you  can 
 really  take  and  just  kind  of  add  a 
 bouquet  of  something  interesting. 
 Brazilian  red  cloaks  are  my  go-to  for  a 
 corner  planting.  They  will  get  8  to  10t 
 tall.  Fill  in  all  underneath  that  double 
 foxtail  palm  back  there.  So,  they're 
 going  to  be  absolutely  stunning  as  a 
 backdrop  and  understood. 
 And  we  don't  have  many  of  them.  We  have 
 four  15  gallons  back  here,  but  they  are 
 going  to  absolutely  engulf  this  whole 
 corner  at  8  to  10t  tall  underneath  the 
 canopy  of  this  tree  and  fill  in  all 
 under  here.  Give  you  this  gorgeous.  Look 
 at  this,  you  guys.  Look  at  this  leaf  at 
 such  a  young  plant.  And  this  leaf  is 
 just  so  stunning.  They're  going  to  give 
 you  that  8  to  10  foot  coverage  of  this 
 dense  leaf  and  then  pop  out  big  cone- 
 shaped  dark  pink  blooms.  And  that's 
 what's  really  going  to  give  this  back  a 
 showstopper  kind  of  feel.  It's  going  to 
 be  flanked  with  fishtail  palms  on  both 
 sides.  And  through  the  middle  is  going 
 to  be  this  double  foxtail  palm  coming 
 out  of  the  middle  with  this  cool  foxtail 
 frond  leaf.  I  just  love  the  way  that's 
 going  to  come  out  of  all  of  this  cluster 
 foliage  in  here.  It's  just  really  going 
 to  be  dense,  really  going  to  be  pink, 
 and  really  going  to  be  just  very,  very, 
 very  private,  but  tropical,  and  that's 
 the  goal.  So  now  I'm  sure  you  can 
 imagine  that  with  these  trees  kind  of 
 all  coming  in  this  coming  up  those 
 coming  this  way  the  canopy  of  this  tree 
 really  giving  us  coverage  this  area  is 
 going  to  get  a  bit  dark  and  that's  going 
 to  happen  in  no  time.  So  what  I  wanted 
 to  bring  in  was  a  few  brighter  tones  and 
 colors.  So  what  you  do  see  when  you're 
 looking  from  the  the  seating  section  you 
 see  the  bright  tones.  So,  we've  got  the 
 a  little  clustering  of  the  curly  dwarf 
 jaba  white  copper  leaves  and  then  one  of 
 my  favorite  plants  ever,  which  is  this 
 song  of  India.  Oh  my  gosh,  you  guys,  it 
 is  just  so  gorgeous.  The  darker  the 
 location  that  it's  in,  the  more  white 
 and  green  it  gets.  And  I  think  that  just 
 a  little  surrounding  the  base  of  this 
 tree  is  going  to  like  scream,  "Hey, 
 little  spotlight  in  the  garden."  It's 
 going  to  give  you  that  little  bit  of 
 impact  of  brightness.  And  I  think  that's 
 going  to  actually  be  a  stunner  as  this 
 garden  opens  up  down  below.  It's  time  to 
 get  nice  and  neat.  We  don't  want 
 anything  too  crazy.  We  got  the  crazy  in 
 the  back.  Now  it's  time  to  kind  of 
 outline  everything  with  some  controlled 
 detailed  planting.  And  you  guys  know 
 that  I  love  the  gold  mound  for  that.  I 
 love  what  Gold  Mound  offer.  They  give  us 
 just  a  little  bit  of  a  paired  back 
 controlled  almost  like  a  little  tropical 
 leafed  hedge.  And  then  if  I  have  gold 
 mound,  I  tend  to  really  love  to  bring  in 
 little  rubies.  These  rubies  will  offer 
 that  dark  tones  at  different  times  of 
 the  year.  They  get  a  little  bit  green 
 during  the  early  summer  and  they  get  a 
 little  bit  red  and  dark  purple  during 
 the  winter  and  fall  seasons.  So,  if  gold 
 mound  and  the  little  rubies  are  not  kind 
 of  your  speed,  if  you  kind  of  want 
 something  that's  kind  of  tapered  back, 
 maybe  you  have  enough  color  back  there, 
 I  love  the  Carissa  boxwood  emerald 
 blankets.  They  make  a  nice  controlled 
 planting.  So  do  dwarf  exoras.  They  make 
 a  nice  controlled  planting.  You  do  need 
 a  little  bit  more  sun  for  those,  but  I'm 
 telling  you,  it's  worth  it  because  they 
 just  really  give  you  that  pop  of  color. 
 That  tiny  leaf  makes  everything  look 
 super  super  tight  and  controlled.  So, 
 whatever  you  put  to  the  back  can  be 
 crazy,  can  be  wild,  but  that  front 
 couple  tiers,  if  you  can  make  that  nice 
 and  tiered  and  controlled,  it  really 
 does  a  nice  job  of  helping  it  come 
 together.  And  this  isn't  a  big  bed,  you 
 guys.  If  I'm  looking  from  this  corner  to 
 all  the  way  back  in  that  far  corner,  and 
 it's  very  v-shaped,  so  it  goes  back 
 very,  very  far  through  that  back,  we're 
 only  looking  at  10  feet.  So,  we  didn't 
 come  out  very  far  into  this  landscaping. 
 My  clients  had  dogs,  so  they  wanted  to 
 make  sure  to  keep  as  much  open  grass  as 
 they  could  and  then  still  enjoy  the 
 privacy  and  the  landscaping.  So,  this  is 
 one  way  that  we  chose  to  do  it.  We  chose 
 to  keep  everything  right  at  the 
 perimeter  of  the  fence  line.  And  I  think 
 it  did  a  nice  job  of  giving  them  the 
 coverage  without  taking  away  all  of 
 their  grass.  There's  not  much  grass  we 
 have  here  in  Vero  Beach,  so  we've  got  to 
 keep  what  we've  got.  So,  lastly  in  this 
 bed  are  going  to  be  the  anmaries.  And  I 
 feel  like  I  mean,  they  deserve  a  mention 
 because  they're  here  and  they're  very 
 young  and  they're  really  not  popping  out 
 yet,  but  I'm  still  going  to  mention 
 them.  I'll  get  Bryce  to  pop  up  a  picture 
 of  what  anaries  look  like  in  the  garden 
 as  they  really  flush  out  with  color. 
 These  are  going  to  be  stunners  when  they 
 do  that.  They're  just  not  quite  there. 
 We  have  a  little  clustering  and  they 
 offer  you  like  a  red  and  yellow  and  even 
 a  tad  bit  of  pink  coloration  in  the 
 blooms.  So  they're  going  to  be  a  perfect 
 little  ground  cover.  And  those  of  you 
 guys  who  have  rabbit  traffic,  anmarie 
 lantana  are  usually  not  on  the  menu  for 
 rabbits.  So  they're  kind  of  a  nice 
 option  and  alternate  to  something  like 
 blue  my  mind.  I'll  use  anie  lantana 
 society  garlic.  Those  kind  of  things  to 
 try  to  avoid  rabbit  traffic.  These  guys 
 will  do  a  nice  job  of  being  condensed. 
 get  a  little  bit  taller  in  the  center 
 with  some  of  that  blooming  color  and 
 then  taper  down  on  the  corners  with  the 
 gold  mound.  So,  I  think  that's  going  to 
 be  a  lovely  combination.  We  do  have  four 
 splitly  filidendrian  in  this  bed  here. 
 So,  I've  got  them  just  popping  out.  You 
 guys  who  know  splitly  filidendrian,  they 
 get  large,  they  get  big,  but  they  do 
 offer  you  a  great  pop  of  leaf  coverage. 
 We  had  a  couple  spots  that  I  thought 
 that  would  be  awesome.  So,  that's  what 
 these  guys  are  here.  They're  going  to 
 come  up.  you  know,  they  get  a  little  bit 
 leggy  to  them,  but  this  big  leaf 
 quadruples  in  size,  and  it's  going  to 
 kind  of  come  up  and  just  soften  the 
 corners  of  both  of  these  beds.  And 
 that's  kind  of  their  goal.  They're  going 
 to  pop  up  and  over  top  of  the  plant 
 material,  offering  a  little  bit  of 
 coverage,  a  little  bit  of  shade  to  the 
 plants,  but  also  give  us  that  leaf  kind 
 of  look  to  the  garden,  that  big  leaf 
 kind  of  look.  We  couldn't  do  10  of  them 
 back  here,  but  do  pop  it  in  a  couple, 
 you  know,  don't  sleep  on  the  split  leaf 
 filidendry.  Sometimes  people  think  you 
 need  a  big  mass  collection  of  them  to 
 really  do  something,  but  you  honestly 
 only  need  a  big  leaf  to  pop  out  here  and 
 there.  And  it  kind  of  gives  them  more  of 
 like  a  like  a  monstera  vibe,  you  know, 
 but  this  area  is  going  to  get  too  much 
 midday  sun.  And  that's  the  reason  why  I 
 chose  the  split  leaf  filidendran  for 
 that  because  they  can  handle  more  of  the 
 sun  than  the  monstera  can.  All right,  so 
 now  let's  move  on  to  the  next  section  of 
 the  yard.  So  this  is  directly  behind  the 
 pool  screen.  This  is  exactly  what  you 
 see  when  you  first  enter  the  front  door 
 of  my  client's  home.  This  is  what  you 
 see  when  you're  sitting  on  the  patio. 
 This  is  a  main  focal  point  area.  So,  I 
 definitely  wanted  to  have  some  interest, 
 some  lower  and  some  taller.  So,  what  I 
 chose  first  just  because  this  is  dead 
 center  on  the  doorway.  Funny  enough,  it 
 is  not  dead  center  on  the  pull  screen, 
 but  on  the  doorway  itself,  that's  where 
 I  pull  my  center  for  the  most  part 
 because  when  you're  inside,  that's  how 
 you  see  it.  So,  this  is  dead  center  of 
 the  doorway  area.  We  have  two  nice  fall 
 agave.  They're  going  to  get  nice  and 
 tall  right  here.  Really  give  that 
 vertical  impact.  Offer  some  structure  in 
 the  garden,  but  not  kind  of  block  the 
 water  line.  You  know,  kind  of  be 
 something  you  can  see  through,  but  it's 
 still  dynamic  enough  to  catch  your 
 attention.  And  then  you  kind  of  float 
 off  from  there.  Then  we  kept  it  real 
 low.  Just  a  handful  of  little  rubies  on 
 the  corner.  A  handful  of  blew  my  minds 
 right  along  the  front.  These  are  planted 
 nice  and  tight  and  close  together  about 
 8  in  to  a  foot  apart.  So  that  way  I  want 
 them  to  connect.  I  want  this  to  become 
 almost  like  a  little  carpet  flower  area. 
 And  then  just  a  staggered  little 
 grouping  of  the  foxtail  ferns.  It's  just 
 to  give  the  bed  a  little  bit  of  weight. 
 And  then  that's  it.  A  nice  ovalshaped 
 bed.  You  know,  just  to  kind  of  make  it  a 
 little  interesting.  Then  it  kind  of 
 creates  more  of  a  meandering  pathway  of 
 grass  here  that  the  dogs  get  to  use  and 
 play  ball  in  and  whatnot.  And  then  we 
 started  another  bed  on  the  opposite 
 side.  So  this  is  more  of  the  garden. 
 This  is  more  of  the  butterfly  garden.  I 
 think  this  is  going  to  be  a  lovely  pop 
 of  blooms.  This  is  the  sunniest  spot  of 
 the  whole  garden.  So,  this  is  the  place 
 that  we  really  did  get  to  splurge  and  do 
 a  little  bit  of  color  in.  So,  I  think 
 that's  going  to  be  gorgeous.  Starting 
 with  the  powder  puff,  the  pink 
 powderpuff  trees.  These  are  25gallon 
 powder  puffs.  I  have  them  anchored  on 
 both  sides.  Their  spread  is  going  to  get 
 enormous  back  here.  Those  of  you  guys 
 who  had  powderpuff  know  they  can  get  all 
 the  way  up  to  20  foot  wide.  But  one  of 
 the  benefits  to  them  is  you  can  keep 
 them  this  size  forever  if  you  wanted  to. 
 They're  not  like  a  a  heavy  hardwood  that 
 you  can't  trim  and  can't  keep  dense  and 
 full.  Either  way,  however  you  want  to  do 
 it,  they're  a  gorgeous  specimen  in  the 
 garden  because  they  really  widen  out, 
 almost  give  you  the  kind  of  that  Asian 
 feel  as  they  get  a  little  bit  larger. 
 Fill  out  more  mushroom  at  the  top,  widen 
 out  at  the  bottom,  really  become  a  cool 
 feature.  And  what  I'm  hoping  to  do  with 
 these,  what  I  was  trying  to  explain  to 
 John  in  his  pruning,  go  ahead  and  prune 
 the  tops  kind  of  off.  could  give  a 
 little  bit  of  a  mushroom  look  to  the  top 
 and  let  the  sides  continue  to  grow  out 
 and  almost  connect  with  each  other.  By 
 the  time  that  these  sides  connect  with 
 each  other,  now  hold  up.  I  know  you're 
 thinking  it's  going  to  block  this  double 
 King  Alexander,  but  let  me  finish.  Once 
 these  guys  connect  like  this,  this  King 
 Alexander  is  going  to  be  25t  tall, 
 pretty  much  all  trunk  at  the  base  here. 
 And  then  you're  going  to  have  these 
 gorgeous  15t  wide  fronds  at  the  top  of 
 this  canopy  of  trees.  So  you'll  have 
 like  a  hammock  that  comes  across  the 
 middle  which  will  serve  as  the  perfect 
 thing  of  coverage.  It'll  kind  of  become 
 that  colorful  wall  to  kind  of  help 
 disguise  all  of  those  houses,  all  of 
 those  backyards,  all  of  those  screen 
 rooms  back  there.  That  will  become  your 
 wall  of  pink  and  green.  Above  that,  so 
 it  just  doesn't  feel  like  a  solid  wall 
 will  be  the  King  Alexander  as  like  the 
 little  crown  on  top.  So  it'll  come  out 
 like  just  a  flaming  little  centerpiece 
 that  you  want  it  to  be.  I  just  love  the 
 way  that  these  palm  trees  kind  of  come 
 out  of  the  hammocks  of  trees.  I  think 
 that's  just  so  cool,  so  magical.  I 
 cannot  wait  to  see  that  happen.  This  bed 
 will  take  time.  I  tried  to  bring  them  in 
 at  30  gallon  size  because  these  powder 
 puffs  grow  a  little  bit  slower.  You  get 
 about  2  foot  this  year  at  the  top  and 
 hopefully  a  good  two  maybe  3T  of  width 
 at  the  edges.  But  it's  really  not 
 necessarily  how  far  they're  coming  out, 
 it's  how  thick  they're  going  to  get.  So 
 trimming  on  these  guys  is  really 
 important.  Anytime  you  have  something 
 that's  lacy  like  this,  trimming  these 
 little  edges,  just  the  little  tips,  you 
 don't  have  to  do  like  a  heavy  cut  back. 
 Just  a  little  trimming  on  the  edges 
 really  promotes  new  stem  off.  So, 
 that'll  get  fuller  and  fuller  through 
 this  area.  And  well  worth  that  little 
 bit  of  effort.  And  I  mean,  they're  so 
 delicate.  You  can  come  in  here  with  like 
 little  nippers  and  just  kind  of  cut  off 
 the  ends  kind  of  like  you  do  a  buganilia 
 tree.  That  way,  you  can  really  just 
 train  it  to  grow  the  way  you  want  to.  I 
 have  seen  these  guys  as  almost  like 
 mushroom  shaped  trees  that  kind  of  come 
 out  and  then  flat  at  the  bottom  and 
 they're  just  like  it's  almost  hard  to 
 tell  what  kind  of  tree  it  is.  It's  just 
 so  stunning.  So,  they'll  do  a  nice  job 
 of  being  the  final  anchor  here. 
 Underneath  here  is  going  to  be  our 
 colorful  garden.  We've  got  hot  pink 
 pentas  to  the  back  right  along  the  fence 
 line.  We've  got  lantana.  These  are 
 yellow  lantana  as  the  center  really 
 filling  up  this  bottom.  And  then  again 
 to  keep  it  nice  and  tight  along  the 
 front,  these  are  Cararissa  boxwood.  I 
 love  this  dark  green  leaf.  This  little 
 guy  will  connect  to  this  little  guy  and 
 it'll  just  kind  of  be  a  nice  little  half 
 circle  to  kind  of  hold  a  little  bit  of 
 the  the  cottagey  feel  of  the  garden 
 back.  So  taller  in  the  back,  shorter  in 
 the  middle,  a  little  shorter  to  this 
 front,  but  very  clean  line,  very  very 
 crisp,  very  very  shiny  leaf.  So  it's 
 going  to  kind  of  give  us  that  tropical 
 feel  right  behind  the  palm  tree  just  to 
 offer  a  little  bit  of  softness.  It's 
 like  a  texture  change.  It's  like  it's 
 like  wardrobe  change.  So,  the  foxtail 
 ferns  do  a  great  job  of  that.  They're 
 going  to  give  you  that  almost  like  a 
 grassy  kind  of  feel,  a  little  bit  of 
 movement  in  the  garden.  Very,  very 
 vertical,  very,  very  upright.  And 
 they're  going  to  do  a  nice  job  of  kind 
 of  giving  us  that  soft  feathery  feel  to 
 the  back  as  an  underplanting  of  this 
 guy.  And  they're  not  going  to  get  four, 
 five,  six  foot  tall  that  covers  up  this 
 waterline.  When  this  area  matures,  the 
 only  thing  my  clients  are  going  to  lose 
 is  the  grass  line  behind  them.  They're 
 going  to  see  they're  going  to  go  right 
 from  plants  to  water.  And  that's  the 
 goal.  As  this  tree  gets  bigger  opening 
 those  trees  here,  we've  got  a  4ft 
 opening  underneath  here.  Once  they  have 
 a  5  to  6t  opening,  it's  all  water  and  no 
 houses,  which  is  is  kind  of  a  nice 
 thing.  So,  especially  when  you  want  to 
 keep  that  that  breeze,  keep  that  water 
 line,  but  not,  you  know,  not  everything 
 else.  We  have  another  boss  agave.  And  I 
 know  this  guy  looks  like  it  doesn't  have 
 exactly  a  purpose  here,  but  when  you're 
 looking  from  inside  out  this  way,  we 
 have  two  fals  agave  here,  one  dead 
 center  here.  So  it  looks  like  this  guy's 
 directly  in  the  middle.  So  we've  kind  of 
 given  it  a  triangle.  So  we  have  those 
 two  forward,  one  pulled  back.  We  have 
 these  two  trees  pulled  forward,  and  the 
 one  behind  me  pulled  back.  And  anytime 
 you  can  do  a  staggered  grouping  like 
 that,  where  you  have  a  triangle  to  the 
 front,  a  triangle  to  the  back,  it  I 
 don't  know,  it  just  comes  together.  It 
 looks  really,  really  well  done.  And  then 
 when  everything  grows  up  and  has  more 
 stature,  more  more  substance  in  the 
 garden,  then  it  really  turns  into  almost 
 like  I  said,  a  statue  in  the  garden.  It 
 kind  of  really  becomes  that 
 architectural  detail  where  they  all  kind 
 of  play  together.  So  I  I  hope  that 
 that's  coming  across  on  camera  for  you 
 guys.  So  if  you  guys  are  liking  this 
 look  or  kind  of  seeing  the  reason  behind 
 it,  but  you're  like,  you  know what,  I 
 just  never  been  a  fan  of  powder  puffs. 
 They're  not  my  thing.  That's  okay. 
 There's  other  trees.  Bottle  brush  trees. 
 Uh  the  standard  variety  is  my  favorite. 
 The  weeping  can  get  a  little  bit  crazy. 
 Can  get  a  little  broad  and  wide.  But  the 
 standard  is  more  lollipop  shape.  So  it 
 has  a  dense  rounded  head,  big  nice  solid 
 trunk.  You  can  put  two  standard  bottle 
 brush  and  they  will  get  10t  wide  and 
 really  give  you  whatever  size  you  want, 
 which  I  think  is  the  point  here.  As  long 
 as  you  can  have  about  5t  of  clear  trunk 
 and  then  that  dense  thick  canopy  at  the 
 top,  then  you're  kind  of  getting  exactly 
 what  you  want.  You  got  the  blockage  with 
 something  natural,  with  something  with 
 color.  Bottle  brush  will  do  a  great  job 
 with  that.  The  next  thing  that  you  can 
 use  is  a  hibiscus.  I  love  hibiscus.  Just 
 make  sure  it's  not  kind  of  like  this 
 where  it's  too  windy  of  a  spot  because 
 they  have  a  tendency  where  they  don't 
 root  quite  as  well.  So  stake  them  really 
 nice  and  tight  so  that  way  the  canopies 
 can  get  real  big  and  you're  not 
 constantly  cutting  it  back.  A  hibiscus 
 tree  will  do  the  same.  You  can  manage 
 the  size  and  you  have  a  nice  dense 
 canopy.  Crate  myrtles  are  ideal  if  you 
 guys  are  only  here  during  the  summer 
 months.  Crate  myrtle  is  an  ideal  tree  to 
 use  because  you  can  keep  it  whatever 
 size  you  want.  The  blooms  are 
 extraordinary.  Unfortunately,  it  is  only 
 during  the  summer  and  then  the  winter, 
 of  course,  they  fall  off.  Um,  a  little 
 dollop  gold  mound.  Now,  it's  rare  that  I 
 put  one  of  anything  in  the  bed,  but  I 
 have  one  on  one  side,  the  false  agave, 
 and  another  on  the  other  because  I 
 didn't  have  much  room,  but  I  still 
 needed  a  highlight  around  this  bad  boy. 
 I  kind  of  wanted  some  impact  from  the 
 inside.  So,  a  gold  mount  on  either  side 
 to  kind  of  give  us  some  paired  back  feel 
 from  the  foxtail  ferns  because  that's  my 
 motto,  tight  and  controlled  against  the 
 crazy.  And  that's  kind  of  what  they're 
 going  to  do.  Then  down  at  the  bottom,  we 
 have  just  a  nice  little  row  of  blew  my 
 minds  and  that's  going  to  offer  just  a 
 little  delicate  color  and  tie  in  with 
 the  delicate  color  in  that  bed.  Now, 
 what's  great  about  this  bed  is  there's 
 room  for  pop  out.  So,  right  now  they 
 wanted  to  keep  it,  you  know,  fairly 
 simple,  the  coverage  where  they  needed 
 it,  some  color  where  they  wanted,  but 
 ultimately  you  can  kind  of  see  how  this 
 can  pretty  much  be  a  thinner  pathway. 
 That  bed  can  loop  out  more  here  and 
 here.  You  can  kind  of  make  this  meander 
 more  this  way  and  tighten  this  whole 
 area  up.  Maybe  make  another  seating 
 section  over  there.  This  is  a  growing 
 landscape  because  this  phase  does  not 
 have  to  be  the  one  and  done.  And  I  try 
 to  encourage  my  clients  where  if  you  can 
 push  your  landscaping  out  to  the  extent 
 of  your  property,  if  that's  a  doable 
 thing  for  you,  start  there.  Because  once 
 you  get  that  bug,  it's  like,  okay,  I'm 
 really  liking  how  everything's  growing 
 in.  what  happens  if  I  just,  you  know, 
 pop  a  bed  out  here  or  pop  a  bed  out 
 there  and  add  to  it.  Kind  of  work  your 
 way  forward.  And  you  can  do  that  slowly 
 over  time,  a  phase  at  a  time.  And  that's 
 how  I  hope  these  videos  come  across.  I 
 hope  they  come  across  where  that's  kind 
 of  doable.  I  can  kind  of  see  the 
 direction  that  you're  going  in  here.  And 
 then  you  as  you  build  up  the  videos,  you 
 build  up  ideas  of  what  might  work  with 
 your  style,  what  you  like,  and  and 
 equally  what  you  don't  like  because 
 that's  just  as  important  when  you're 
 creating  a  space,  especially  when  you're 
 limited  like  we  are  here  in  Vero  Beach. 
 A  lot  of  the  Florida  homes  are  very 
 similar  to  this  where  you  have  very 
 little  space.  So  you  want  to  make  sure 
 that  what  you  put  in  there  is  something 
 that  you're  going  to  be  ideally  happy 
 with.  So  research,  research,  research  is 
 key  or  hire  a  company  like  ourselves,  a 
 landscape  design  company  or  wherever  you 
 are  and  investigate  that  a  little  bit 
 prior  to  actually  putting  the  first 
 planter  tree  in  the  ground.  That  way 
 you're  sure  to  really  like  the  direction 
 that  you're  going  in  and  you're  not 
 doing  things  backwards  or  not  doing 
 things  over.  There's  one  thing  about 
 investing  money  into  landscaping,  but 
 there's  a  whole  another  thing  in  wasting 
 it  in  landscaping.  And  I  know  that 
 happens  a  lot  more  times  than  it  should. 
 So  anyway,  so  kudos  to  you  guys  for 
 doing  your  research  today.  All right,  so 
 we're  now  in  the  opposite  corner.  And 
 although  I  love  balance,  I  think  it  was 
 very  important  to  have  something 
 different  going  on  here.  I  did  stick 
 with  the  foxtail  palm,  but  this  is  a 
 triple  compared  to  the  double  that  we 
 have  on  the  opposite  side.  So,  we  have  a 
 nice  triple  foxtail  palm  for  this 
 corner.  Flanking  on  either  side,  we  have 
 two  kinopsis  palms.  Oh  my  gosh,  you 
 guys.  I  love  this.  I  mean,  just  look  at 
 this  giant  leaf  compared  to  me.  I  mean, 
 this  is  a  huge  leaf.  This  is  very 
 vertical  tree,  very  upright,  grow  slow. 
 For  those  of  you  guys  in  the  northern 
 area,  Melbourne,  Cocoa  Beach,  Satellite 
 Beach,  maybe  even  into  Orlando,  these 
 guys  can  handle  it.  They  can  get  down 
 into  temps  of  24.  Fabulous  tree  to  work 
 with.  I  love  that  upright  look  that  they 
 have  to  their  fronds.  So,  they  have  a 
 nice  small  trunk.  They  will  of  course 
 grow  tall  like  most  palms  do,  but 
 they're  going to  do  it  at  a  slow  rate. 
 So,  they're  really  going  to  offer  this 
 kind  of  look.  But  once  they  do  grow 
 tall,  they're  not  going  to  compete  with 
 this  triple  foxtail  palm.  It  is  going  to 
 be  the  crown  on  the  top.  It's  going  to 
 be  the  one  that's  pushing  through.  These 
 will  be  the  understory  trees,  but  these 
 fronds  will  now  eventually  start  to  open 
 up  and  kind  of  come  across  me.  They 
 won't  quite  touch.  They're  not  quite 
 that  wide.  They're  still  more  vertical 
 than  they  are  wide,  but  they  will  come 
 pretty  darn  close  and  kind  of  become 
 almost  like  a  little  hammock  to  this 
 area,  like  a  little  cove  to  this  corner. 
 And  that  was  the  goal  on  both  of  these 
 corners  because  we  had  to  work  so 
 tightly  against  the  fence.  You  want  to 
 make  sure  that  you  push  it  back  as  far 
 as  you  can.  Make  sure  that  whatever's  in 
 that  rear  corner,  make  it  the  tallest 
 thing  in  the  garden.  Make  it  the  crown. 
 So  that  way  when  you  put  other  things  on 
 either  side  of  it,  you're  almost 
 creating  that  Vshape  above  your  ey  line. 
 And  then  all  of  this  lower  material, 
 this  is  just  fluff.  This  is  just  filler. 
 It  really  kind  of  creates  a  cove  of  its 
 own  without  you  having  to  do  any  of  that 
 work  because  palm  trees  are  way  less 
 maintenance  than  than  plants  themselves. 
 If  you  want  to  create  this  look,  but 
 maybe  these  palms  aren't  an  option  for 
 you.  Some  other  options,  if  you  can't  do 
 a  triple  foxtail  palm,  look  into 
 something  like  a  king  Alexander  or  a 
 regular  Alexander,  a  Montgomery  palm. 
 Those  are  all  palms  that  kind  of  really 
 give  you  that  big  nice  bow  to  the  trunk 
 and  gives  you  a  nice  dense  full  thick 
 canopy  because  what  you're  looking  for 
 is  a  big  umbrella  back  there.  That  big 
 thing  that  comes  up  and  out.  Another 
 thing  would  be  a  cold  coconut  if  you're 
 from  the  north.  A  regular  coconut  is 
 ideal  if  you're  down  south  because  it's 
 going  to  really  give  you  that  great 
 branching  and  it's  going  to  do  it  pretty 
 fast.  On  either  side,  you  guys  know  I 
 love  the  King  Alexander,  the  singles.  I 
 would  put  a  single  King  Alexander, 
 another  single  here.  And  that  really 
 does  a  great  job  of  kind  of  giving  you 
 that  vertical  feel  without  taking  up  too 
 much  space.  So  that  would  be  a  good 
 look.  To  the  back  we  have  the  Rojo  red 
 copper  leaves.  And  I  know  you  you  guys 
 know  you  see  me  use  them  all  the  time. 
 They're  going  to  get  six  to  seven  foot. 
 Fill  in  this  whole  back  corner.  This  is 
 going  to  be  a  dense  cluster  planting 
 that's  going  to  be  nice  and  full  because 
 what  my  clients  are  looking  at  are  five 
 or  six  different  pool  areas  and 
 different  screen  rooms  back  there.  So 
 having  this  corner  more  dense  is  ideal 
 for  that  privacy,  for  that  coverage,  and 
 this  is  going  to  do  a  great  job  of  that. 
 Right  through  the  bottom,  our  song  of 
 India.  So  we  have  a  bright  spot  on  both 
 rear  corners.  In  what's  going  to  be  a 
 dark  spot  as  it  grows  in  these  songs  of 
 India  will  become  a  nice  filtered  kind 
 of  like  just  a  bright  tone  as  you  come 
 in.  Can  easily  be  managed  at  3  foot.  You 
 guys,  Java  white  is  another  great  plant 
 to  use.  The  only  negative  with  Java 
 white  versus  the  Song  of  India  is  the 
 Java  white  not  only  gets  taller  but  it 
 does  need  some  room  for  expansion.  So  if 
 you've  got  that  room  ideal  if  you  don't 
 Song  of  India  is  perfect  for  that  kind 
 of  look.  Another  one  is  Sanchezia. 
 Sanchezia  is  a  great  kind  of  bright  tone 
 in  a  dark  spot.  So  sandwich  those  things 
 in  between  your  dark  colors.  Right  here 
 we  have  an  orange  flame  burmilad.  This 
 is  a  sunloving  burmilad.  It's  going  to 
 widen  out  and  fill  in  this  whole  spot. 
 become  such  a  a  nice  pop  of  bright 
 orange-ish  yellow  color  in  the  middle.  I 
 have  some  little  golden  sedum  at  the 
 base  here  and  at  the  base  here  and  then 
 right  along  this  tip  just  to  give  us  a 
 highlight  and  carry  this  theme  on  over 
 is  going  to  be  the  blew  my  minds  because 
 that  is  a  song  that  we're  singing 
 through  this  whole  bed.  Just  about  every 
 bed  back  here  has  a  little  touch  of  blew 
 my  minds.  We  did  not  go  crazy,  but  it 
 just  has  a  little  bit  of  that  blue 
 color.  I  wish  they  were  popping  open 
 right  now,  but  it  is  6  o'clock  in  the 
 evening  and  they've  closed  up  for  the 
 night,  so  you  don't  really  get  to  see 
 the  beauty  of  those.  I  know  you  true 
 gardeners  out  there,  I  know  you  guys  can 
 imagine  what  that  looks  like  cuz  you've 
 seen  them  on  so  many  of  my  videos. 
 Speaking  of  true  gardeners,  comment  true 
 gardener  if  you  guys  have  made  it  this 
 far  in  this  video  because  you  are  truly 
 true  gardeners.  I  really  enjoy  reading 
 and  flipping  through  your  comments  every 
 single  weekend  and  seeing  that  true 
 gardener  stamp  of  approval  there.  So, 
 thank  you,  True  Gardeners.  So  for  the 
 next  smallest  section,  but  definitely 
 not  the  least,  because  this  is  an 
 important  thing  to  do  if  you  have  one  of 
 those  narrow  areas  to  avoid  them  being  a 
 pain  in  the  butt  to  work  with.  This 
 little  section,  which  is  a  6  foot  wide 
 side  area  of  the  pool,  could  not  be 
 neglected,  but  it  was  very  hard  to 
 figure  out  what  to  do  here  other  than  a 
 nice  tight  pod  carpus  hedge.  Now,  I  love 
 podocarp  because  it  can  be  10t  tall  and 
 1T  wide.  I  mean,  there's  not  many  things 
 that  will  hold  up  nice  and  straight  like 
 that  and  really  become  nice  and  dense 
 and  full  and  solid.  So  much  so  that  when 
 this  guy  gets  full  and  thick  and  they 
 all  connect  and  become  that  10-ft  wall, 
 they're  going  to  be  almost  a  sound 
 barrier,  too,  because  of  all  these 
 individual  little  needles.  And  that's 
 what  you're  looking  for,  but  you  don't 
 have  the  room  for  something  like  a  Kucia 
 or  a  viburnum  or,  you  know,  anything 
 that's  going  to  come  over  here  and 
 encroach  into  this  space,  then  podarpus 
 is  a  great  go-to  option.  I  love  what  it 
 does.  it  will  be  this  tall  in  no  time 
 and  really  become  a  nice  sleek  clean 
 wall  and  really  really  work  in  this 
 space.  And  because  they're  going  to  do 
 that  and  they're  not  going  to  let  any 
 sun  come  in  from  this  side,  we  ended  up 
 doing  a  Tahesian  gray  granite  stone 
 pathway.  Look  how  nice  and  tight  this 
 pathway  is.  It's  only  been  in  for  just  a 
 few  days  and  you  can  really  see  I  am  not 
 sinking.  I  am  not  wobbling.  This  is  a 
 great  pathway  to  use  if  you  guys  have 
 Tahesian  gray  granite  or  even  regular 
 gray  granite.  This  pathway  here  is  an 
 inch  to  inch  and  a  half.  Most  rocky 
 yards  carry  it.  Probably  not  the  most 
 ideal  thing  if  you're  out  there  looking 
 at  rock  at  the  rocky  yard.  That's  the 
 reason  why  I  mention  it  so  much.  It's 
 one  that  gets  looked  past  so  often 
 because  it's  I  wouldn't  say  it's  your 
 prettiest  rock,  but  it  knits  together  so 
 well.  All  those  little  hard  edges 
 connect  and  knit  together  and  drop  down 
 unlike  a  rolling  rock  like  your  White 
 River  rock  or  some  of  your  prettier 
 rocks.  That  kind  of  rock  is  lovely  in  a 
 garden  bed,  but  if  you're  looking  to 
 make  it,  you  know,  useful  where  you're 
 needing  to  walk  or  it's  traffic  or,  you 
 know,  this  is  a  much  better  option.  So, 
 I  love  using  it  right  outside  the  pool 
 screen  here.  You  can  tell  that  this  is 
 an  area  that's  more  of  a  utilitarian 
 area.  And  we  all  kind  of  need  to  kind  of 
 make  allowance  for  that  for  storage  or 
 would  be  ideal  for  herb  planting 
 planters  along  this  area.  There's  still 
 enough  room  for  both  of  those  things 
 with  this  tight  fitting  hedge.  Now,  what 
 you  do  want  to  make  sure  and  do  if 
 you're  going  to  you  have  a  very  similar 
 fence  like  my  client  has,  if  you  have 
 that  and  you're  going to  put  rock  up 
 against  it,  definitely  continue  putting 
 an  edging  along  that  bottom.  Put  a  nice 
 little  footer.  We  have  the  aluminum 
 alloy  edging.  It  runs  all  along  this 
 little  front  section  here  and  then  feeds 
 all  the  way  through  the  side  and  goes 
 all  the  way  down  the  back.  It's  kind  of 
 a  bummer  because  you  don't  get  to  see 
 it,  but  it  does  a  great  job  of  keeping 
 this  compact  and  tight,  real  controlled. 
 So,  this  rock  isn't  going  anywhere.  We 
 have  hurricanes,  tornadoes,  we  have  so 
 much  bad  weather  in  our  Florida  area. 
 So,  keeping  this  in  a  permanent  sandwich 
 position  is  the  way  to  go.  All  right, 
 you  guys.  So,  that  pretty  much  does  it 
 for  today.  This  small  yard  is  now 
 becoming  private.  One  side  is  fully 
 private.  The  other  side  in  no  time  will 
 become  a  gorgeous  wall  and  kind  of 
 create  that  look.  And  I'm  hoping  that 
 helps  you  guys  with  maybe  some  ideas, 
 maybe  some  tips  and  tricks  of  what  you 
 can  do  in  your  space.  All  right,  you 
 guys.  Thank  you  so  much  for  joining  me 
 on  today's  video.  I  hope  you  enjoyed  it. 
 And  if  you  liked  this  one,  then  you'll 
 like  the  latest  garden  tour  video,  which 
 is  a  backyard  pool  tropical  resort  feel. 
 I  hope  you're  going  to  enjoy  that.  Take 
 care.  I'll  see  you  next  weekend.

---

 What  goes  into  making  these  projects 
 from  bare  dirt  renovated  to  a  resort 
 style  garden  like  we  like  to  do. 
 [Music] 
 Today  is  going  to  be  about  a  day  in  the 
 life  of  a  landscape  designer  or  at least 
 this  landscape  designer.  So  you  guys  get 
 to  see  that  it's  not  just  about  the 
 digging  the  hole,  the  watering  things  in 
 and  putting  the  trees  in,  but  just  kind 
 of  the  thoughts  that  go  on  behind  the 
 scenes.  Happy  Monday  morning  and  let's 
 get  started.  We  are  going  to  head  to  the 
 job  sites  where  I'm  going  to  go  meet  my 
 guys  and  kind  of  just  walk  through  the 
 project  and  kind  of  get  things  set  up 
 and  started.  Let's  get  going. 
 [Music] 
 All right,  you  guys.  So,  we  have  arrived 
 at  the  job  site.  We  are  here  in  Vero 
 Beach,  Florida,  zone  10A.  We  are  going 
 to  set  up  the  job  now.  One  of  the  most 
 important  parts  of  my  day.  So,  this  is 
 where  I'm  going  to  take  my  stakes.  I'm 
 going  to  take  the  paint.  I'm  going  to 
 kind  of  mark  out  the  entire  job  for  the 
 guys  to  start  with  the  prep  work,  start 
 with  the  removal.  Those  of  you  guys  who 
 are  loving  this  kind  of  content,  please 
 like,  subscribe,  hit  that  notification 
 bell.  I  have  noticed  that  so  many  of  you 
 guys  who  keep  revisiting  back  with  me 
 have  not  yet  subscribed.  So,  if  you  love 
 it,  subscribe. 
 [Music] 
 We  have  the  frame  trees  in.  Now  we're 
 going  to  go  see  what  it  looks  like  from 
 inside.  Then  I  can  set  the  rest  of  the 
 trees  off  of  the  frame  trees,  which  are 
 the  most  important  trees  in  the  whole 
 design.  This  is  a  real  important  part  of 
 the  process.  A  lot  of  times  you  can  set 
 up  from  outside  in  that  space,  but 
 really  the  true  final  like  look  of 
 everything  is  from  inside  because  it  is 
 amazing  how  different  it  can  look  from 
 when  you're  sitting  out  there. 
 everything  can  eye  up  and  it  can  line  up 
 perfectly.  But  then  you  get  inside  this 
 seating  area  and  you're  you're  looking 
 at  it  from  this  angle,  which  is  the  most 
 important  angle  and  it  looks  a  little 
 off.  And  I  always  kind  of  do  it  right 
 from  when  you  walk  out  to  the  garden.  So 
 center  of  the  doors,  if  you  guys  have 
 back  patio  doors,  the  center  area  of 
 that,  you  kind  of  want  to  see  what  those 
 angles  look  like.  So  over  here  in  this 
 corner,  we're  dead  center  in  the  middle. 
 And  I'm  really  really  happy  with  this 
 this  feel,  this  look.  But  then  now  you 
 come  over  here.  This  grouping  of  three 
 stakes.  But  you  can  see  how  off  that 
 middle  stake  when  I'm  looking  at  it 
 outdoors,  that  middle  stake  is  on  that 
 middle  post.  It's  way  off.  So  I  need  to 
 shift  that  whole  bed  to  the  right. 
 That's  why  you  always  want  to  come 
 inside  and  make  sure  that  you're  looking 
 at  the  island.  You're  looking  at  the 
 location  of  the  trees  from  the  most 
 important  part,  which  is  where  you're 
 at.  You  want  to  make  sure  the  most 
 important  seating  sections  are  accounted 
 for. 
 All 
 right,  on  the  inside 
 >> we  are  done.  Trees  are  set.  This  is  what 
 the  preliminary  looks  like.  All  of  these 
 posts  that  are  here  with  tags  on  them 
 represent  our  trees  to  be  installed.  So 
 we  can  make  sure  that  we  are  happy  with 
 placement  of  everything.  As  easy  as 
 picking  up  a  stake  and  moving  it  6  in  to 
 the  left  or  6  in  to  the  right.  This  is 
 the  corner  planting  grouping  here.  So 
 let's  envision  this.  So,  in  this 
 particular  bed,  right  directly  behind  me 
 in  this  corner  is  going  to  be  a  double 
 foxtail  palm.  It's  going  to  pop  up  nice 
 size  back  here.  Directly  to  the  front  is 
 going  to  be  a  triple  bottle  palm.  So, 
 this  is  going  to  be  tall  and  slender. 
 This  is  going  to  be  short  and  chunky. 
 And  then  right  on  either  side  here  and 
 here  is  going  to  be  the  triple  Christmas 
 palms  that  came  from  the  builder's 
 package.  So,  we're  going  to  utilize  them 
 back  into  this  bed.  And  then  envision 
 the  privacy  as  it  pops  in.  So  back  here, 
 these  poles  represent  fishtail  palms.  So 
 a  nice  backdrop  of  fishtail  palms  on 
 this  side  and  a  nice  backdrop  of 
 fishtail  palms  on  the  opposite  side 
 along  the  fenced  area  there.  That  means 
 bye-bye  neighbors.  That  means  it's 
 really  going  to  have  nice  and  a  peaceful 
 space,  especially  if  the  neighbor  next 
 door  is  going  to  have  a  pool  area.  This 
 is  the  design  process.  This  is  exactly 
 what  I  went  through  and  discussed  with 
 my  clients.  We  went  through  photos.  We 
 went  through  images.  We  talked  about 
 sight  lines.  We  did  all  of  this  in 
 preparation  for  today  for  this  week.  So 
 that  way  my  clients  can  get  a  good 
 visual  of  everything  that's  in  the 
 space.  I  will  pop  in  the  rendering  right 
 here  so  you  can  kind  of  see  exactly  what 
 we're  working  off  of,  what  the  new 
 landscape's  going  to  look  like. 
 All right,  you  guys.  So,  we  are  here. 
 We're  at  one  of  the  nurseries  that  we're 
 picking  material  up  for  the  job  that  we 
 are  on  today.  And  it's  one  of  my 
 favorite  parts  and  it's  probably  one 
 thing  that  I  would  say  that's  crucially 
 important.  If  you  guys  are  working  with 
 a  landscape  designer  or  a  landscape 
 contractor,  make  sure  that  they  are 
 actually  tagging  your  material.  They're 
 going  to  the  nursery  and  they're  picking 
 that  up.  They're  going to  make  sure  they 
 pick  the  prettiest  plant  in  a  batch,  the 
 prettiest  tree  in  a  batch.  You  know, 
 it's  just  like  going  Christmas  tree 
 shopping.  You're  looking  for  the  right 
 tree  for  the  right  place  and  and  making 
 sure  it's  turned.  It  looks  just  stunning 
 in  all  directions.  what  I  have  imagined. 
 You  know,  I  want  to  make  sure  that  I 
 have  real  thick  grouping  on  one  side  and 
 a  little  bit  more  of  an  angular  narrow 
 in  another  section.  So,  when  I'm  looking 
 for  plants  and  trees,  I'm  kind  of  trying 
 to  match  the  puzzle  pieces  to  go  into 
 the  spaces  that  I'm  looking  for.  My 
 clients  will  say  to  me,  "Oh  my  goodness, 
 I  had  no  idea  that  you  were  going  to  be 
 on  the  job  site.  I  had  no  idea  that 
 you're  going to  be  setting  the  poles.  I 
 had  no  idea  that  you're  going  to  be  out 
 there  marking  paint  for  the  guys  to  do 
 the  actual  install."  You  want  to  find  a 
 company  who's  going  to  either  be  on  site 
 to  make  sure  that  vision  comes  to  life 
 for  you.  You  want  to  make  sure  that  they 
 have  a  good  team  behind  them  so  that  the 
 job  goes  seamlessly.  And  then  you  want 
 to  make  sure  that  you  have  a  person 
 tagging  your  material,  making  sure  that 
 you're  getting  the  best  in  the  crop.  So 
 that  way  everything  pulls  together  and 
 you  get  not  just  what  you  pay  for,  but 
 you  get  that  dream  garden  that  you're 
 looking  for.  Those  are  just  some  tips 
 that  I  would  be  looking  for  if  I  were 
 looking  for  a  contractor  for  my  space. 
 All  right,  so  this  yes, 
 this 
 no.  All  right,  you  guys.  So,  we  are  back 
 in  our  office.  I  just  finished  up  a 
 virtual  consult.  It  was  fabulous.  I  got 
 to  speak  with  Chris,  kind  of  walk 
 through  his  front  yard  designs.  He  had 
 one  general  angle  that  he  was  very,  very 
 focused  on  wanting  to  create  something 
 with  some  impact  there.  He  had  a  tree 
 that  died,  so  he  wanted  to  replace  it 
 with  something  that  had  some  ump.  What 
 we  talked  about  was  creating  a  clean 
 line  landscape.  It  was  one  image  he 
 wanted  to  look  at,  one  actual  location. 
 And  so  I  was  actually  able  to  take  that, 
 superimpose  it  into  my  program  during 
 our  hour  meeting  and  overlay  the  plants 
 and  trees  and  the  landscape  into  that 
 space.  So  as  we  were  talking,  we  were  we 
 were  adding  it  in.  So  he  got  a  good 
 visual  of  what  that  looks  like.  This  is 
 the  area  in  question  here  that  he  has 
 some  concerns  over.  You  can  see  there  is 
 a  big  empty  hole  here  where  a  previous 
 Canary  Island  date  palm  had  died.  Got  a 
 nice  pygmy  palm  this  corner  and  a 
 foxtail  palm  over  here.  So,  what  was 
 missing  is  right  here  in  this  spot  to 
 have  some  impact.  Now,  we  couldn't  do  it 
 in  this  area  because  of  some  underground 
 pipes  and  a  propane  tank.  So,  we  brought 
 the  bed  forward  down  into  this  area.  And 
 that's  what  we're  going  to  look  at  now. 
 And  then  Chris  loved  the  idea  of 
 complenting  the  foxtail  to  the  back  with 
 three  additional  foxtails  to  the  front, 
 creating  a  nice  big  tropical  island. 
 Very  clean  line,  but  definitely  has  some 
 vertical  impact.  So,  we  have  the  foxtail 
 palms  here  that  are  going  to  get  a  great 
 size.  Three  pygmy  date  palms  underneath 
 that  are  going  to  give  him  the  coverage 
 he  kind  of  wants.  He  just  all  this  glass 
 and  windows  and  everything  that's  here 
 for  a  very  busy  street.  He  wanted  some 
 kind  of  a  little  bit  of  privacy,  a 
 little  bit  of  coverage  from  all  of  that. 
 So,  this  is  going  to  do  a  great  job  of 
 offering  a  kind  of  a  palm  frrawn  type  of 
 wall  and  kind  of  like  a  nice  floating 
 island  in  this  front  area.  We  brought  in 
 some  fals  agave  to  give  it  some  accents. 
 A  little  bit  of  fakahhatche  grass  on  the 
 corner  to  soften  it.  And  you  guys  can 
 see  the  mix  of  croins  and  exoras  and 
 very  nice  soft  clean  mix  at  the  bottom. 
 He  is  going  to  move  forward.  He's  going 
 to  pick  up  this  material  and  install  it 
 and  it's  going  to  be  a  nice  island  that 
 he's  able  to  take  away.  And  this  was  all 
 done  in  today's  virtual  console.  What  I 
 love  the  most  about  this  whole  thing  is 
 I  do  get  to  share  my  expertise  of  all  of 
 these  years  being  in  business,  you  know, 
 but  I  also  get  to  share  with  my 
 mistakes,  you  know,  it's  like  we've  all 
 been  there.  There's  always  an  issue  with 
 a  a  propane  tank  in  the  wrong  spot  or  a 
 septic  system  that  you're  dealing  with 
 or  whatever  it  might  be  that  just  really 
 might  be  troubling  you  about  your 
 particular  area  of  this  garden.  And  it 
 might  not  be  an  area  that  you  need  to 
 have  some  big  master  plan  or  have  an 
 architect  or  a  designer  come  and  take  a 
 look  at  this  space.  It  just  might  be 
 that  little  problem  child,  that  little 
 problem  corner  in  your  garden.  So,  it's 
 just  been  a  fun  thing  to  do  face  to 
 face.  We're  going  to  get  into  the  last 
 phase  of  our  day,  which  is  the  planning 
 section,  and  that  is  where  Bryce  comes 
 in.  We  have  made  it  to  the  end  of  our 
 day.  This  is  the  time  where  it  gets  down 
 to  the  brass  tax,  where  it  gets  really, 
 really  serious.  This  is  important  stuff 
 right  now.  This  is  where  the  plans  come 
 together.  Bryce  gathers  all  the 
 information  for  our  landscape  design. 
 So,  I  am  on  site  for  our  landscape 
 design  installation.  Bryce  handles  all 
 the  collection  of  the  information  for 
 our  designonly  service.  He  meets  with  a 
 client  in  person.  He  video  records  the 
 conversation,  all  of  the  questions  that 
 he  knows  to  ask  about  the  specific 
 space.  All  of  that's  being  recorded. 
 We'll  review  those  recordings.  We'll 
 review  the  discussion.  And  then  I 
 prepare  the  renderings  for  the  space.  I 
 lay  everything  out  after  gathering  all 
 that  information  and  then  pass  that  over 
 to  him.  and  he  does  the  detailed  stuff. 
 >> So,  just  like  mom  said,  this  is  her 
 doing,  this  is  mine.  I  always  say  that 
 this  is  the  visual  and  then  this  is  the 
 actually  scaled  up  version.  And  I  try  to 
 make  it  a  map  so  it's  just  pretty  much 
 easy  to  follow  as  possible.  And  what  I 
 have  is  the  common  name  with  the  amount 
 and  then  a  little  call  out  that  goes 
 right  to  it.  If  you  want  to  hand  this  to 
 your  installer  or  you  wanted  to  do  it 
 yourself,  it's  pretty  easy  to  follow. 
 And  I  also  have  a  little  legend  right 
 here  where  it  has  the  common  name,  the 
 quantity,  and  the  size  or  if  it's 
 already  existing  in  the  property.  When  I 
 first  met  with  Eugene,  he  was  really 
 wanting  a  tropical  vibe.  And  I  feel  like 
 we  accomplished  that  for  him.  She 
 literally  filled  up  everything  in  his 
 backyard.  It  was  clear  that  he  wanted  no 
 grass.  And  I  think  she  accomplished  that 
 pretty  well.  And  after  she's  done  with 
 both  of  these  renderings,  all  it  is  is 
 my  job  to  translate  this  onto  a  map.  So, 
 I  guess  you  guys  can  see  what  a  joint 
 effort  this  is.  We  fine-tune  what  we 
 need  to.  We  really,  really  play  really 
 well  off  of  each  other.  And  I  think 
 that's  probably  one  of  the  best  parts  of 
 my  job  is  that  I  get  to  work  with  my 
 family.  If  it's  not  Bryce,  it's 
 chitchatting  with  Marissa  about  this  or 
 that.  And  of  course,  my  husband  is  on 
 the  job  site,  so  we  have  plenty  of  that 
 unified  little  group  that  we  have 
 together.  And  I  hope  you  guys  enjoy  just 
 kind  of  seeing  what  we  go  through  in  a 
 day.  Now,  is  there  some  drama  sometimes? 
 Absolutely.  Sometimes  we'll  hit  a  pipe 
 or  sometimes  we'll  hit  a  cable  line  or 
 or  something  like  that  where  it's  like 
 ah  been  doing  this  so  long  that  we  kind 
 of  worked  the  kinks  out  and  then  now 
 sharing  it  with  a  new  generation  coming 
 in.  He's  fabulous  at  the  CADS  who  really 
 lays  it  out  and  I  love  how  he  goes 
 through  with  our  clients  and  just  shares 
 with  them  with  the  ruler  and  say,  "Okay, 
 this  is  exactly  how  to  set  this  up  and 
 line  this  up  just  like  if  they  were  a 
 landscaper  doing  it  for  20  years."  We 
 give  everybody  a  care  schedule.  So,  all 
 the  plants  and  trees  that  we  install,  we 
 leave  our  clients  with  a  complete  list 
 of  a  picture  of  the  plant  with  a 
 paragraph  or  two  of  how  to  take  care  of 
 it,  how  to  maintain  it,  when  to  trim  it, 
 when  to  fertilize  it.  And  that  goes  with 
 the  installations  and  with  our  design 
 service,  too,  because  I  think  that 
 that's  a  big  part  that  kind  of  gets 
 missed.  Everything  will  be  so  good  and 
 so  easy  the  first  year,  and  then  we  get 
 a  drought  or  then  we  get  too  much  rain 
 and  and  things  might  have  some  issues, 
 and  there's  some  questions  on,  okay, 
 what  do  I  do  in  this  situation  or  what 
 do  I  do  in  that?  So  giving  as  much 
 insight  as  possible  I  think  has  been 
 huge.  Bryce  has  added  in  even  more  of 
 that  with  the  cabs. 
 >> Try  to  be  as  helpful  as  possible. 
 >> Yeah.  Yeah.  Because  it  it  it  does  it's 
 all  about  getting  our  clients  from  point 
 A  to  point  B.  And  that  is  a  beautiful 
 garden.  And  so  whatever  way  that  we  can 
 do  that  with  as  much  information  as  we 
 can  gather  and  give.  I  hope  you  guys 
 enjoyed  watching  today's  video  and 
 seeing  a  life  in  the  day  here  with  us 
 and  kind  of  what  you  know  what  happens 
 behind  the  scenes,  what  goes  into  it. 
 It's  a  little  bit  more  than  digging  the 
 hole  and  planting  the  tree.  I  would 
 >> a  little  bit  of  creating  something  every 
 single  day  and  making  people  happy.  I 
 think  we'll  be  doing  this  forever. 
 >> Mhm.  If  there's  any  career  that  you  can 
 do,  make  sure  you  have  something  where 
 you're  leaving  whoever  you're  working 
 with  is  happy. 
 >> Yeah.  If  you  enjoyed  today's  video,  then 
 you  may  enjoy  last  weekend's  video, 
 which  is  how  to  make  your  garden  look 
 like  a  million  bucks.  So,  check  that 
 out.  We'll  be  sure  to  put  that  over  here 
 right  to  my  side.  And  yes,  nice  big  box 
 there.  All right,  you  guys.  This  has 
 been  so  much  fun.  Take  care.  I'll  see 
 you  next  weekend. 
 [Music]

---



---

 I  have  been  talking  about  this  for 
 months  and  the  day  is  finally  here. 
 [Music] 
 We  are  putting  a  flag  stone  pathway  into 
 our  back  garden.  We're  going  to  walk  you 
 through  the  process.  We  have  our  handy 
 dandy  installation  team  here  to  help  us, 
 but  I'm  going  to  kind  of  share  with  you 
 everything  right  along  the  way  and  then 
 of  course  costs  involved  in  doing  this. 
 So,  if  you  guys  are  thinking  about  doing 
 this  for  yourself,  I'm  hoping  by  the  end 
 of  today's  video,  you  will  be  able  to 
 design  and  install  your  flagstone 
 pathway  to  perfection.  Please  be  sure  to 
 like  and  subscribe  if  this  is  the  kind 
 of  content  that  you  guys  like  to  see. 
 And  we  will  see  you  guys  every  single 
 weekend  as  we  post  a  video.  Just  like 
 everybody  else,  we  had  grass  in  our 
 backyard.  It  just  didn't  hold  up  well. 
 Between  the  filtered  light  that  we  had 
 to  work  with  here,  you  know,  the 
 constant  rains  that  we  have  here  in 
 Florida,  it  tended  to  be  more  mushy  than 
 anything  else.  We  just  knew  that  budgets 
 weren't  going  to  quite  allow  for  a  flag 
 stone  pathway  right  away.  So,  what  we 
 did  do  was  we  did  remove  the  sod.  That 
 was  our  first  phase.  Our  next  phase  was 
 bringing  in  some  edging.  So,  we  used 
 edging  on  both  sides  and  that  made  sure 
 to  secure  the  rock  in  place.  It  locked 
 our  pathway  in  place  for  now.  Filled 
 this  with  Tahesian  gray  granite.  You 
 guys  know  how  much  I  love  my  Tahesian 
 gray  granite.  Knowing  that  we're  going 
 to  get  to  the  point  of  doing  flag  stone. 
 So,  the  first  thing  that  you're  going  to 
 want  to  do  when  you're  deciding  on  where 
 to  lay  your  flag  stone  and  how  you  want 
 that  to  come  about  is  get  extension  cord 
 or  garden  hose  or  whatever  you  have  on 
 hand  and  outline  that  pathway  area.  So, 
 that's  exactly  where  we  started.  So,  I 
 know  I  didn't  want  a  straight  pathway. 
 Now,  you  can  absolutely  do  that  and  it 
 would  look  fine.  I  needed  some  areas  for 
 it  to  bow  out.  It  won't  make  sense  just 
 yet,  but  in  the  next  phase  it  will 
 because  I'm  going  to  create  little 
 pockets  of  groupings.  of  boulders  with 
 maybe  some  foxtail  agave  or  or  maybe 
 it's  a  bird  bath.  The  reasons  for  that 
 pathway  to  have  that  meandering  feel. 
 And  if  you  do  too  much  of  this  going  on 
 with  a  pathway  and  there's  no  reason 
 why,  then  you  tend  to  want  to  take  that 
 straight  and  narrow  path.  And  when 
 you're  looking  down  your  pathway,  you 
 see  the  pathway  kind  of  meander  through 
 here,  but  that  block  in  your  vision  does 
 such  a  good  eye  to  draw  you  further 
 down.  So  that's  why  I  love  curves.  I 
 love  what  they  do.  And  so  I'm  hoping 
 that  this  turns  out  just  like  that.  So, 
 in  breaking  down  the  costs  of  what 
 you're  going  to  kind  of  need  for  flag 
 stone,  you're  going  to  want  to  make  sure 
 that  you  have  obviously  enough  materials 
 where  it's  you're  not  hopping  from  step 
 to  step  to  step.  Now,  I  like  a  loose 
 fitting  flag  stone.  It  doesn't  need  to 
 be  fully  pieced  together.  I  like  it 
 where  it's  set  in  gravel.  So,  you  get  a 
 lot  of  flag  stone  for  the  money,  I 
 guess,  when  you  do  it  that  way.  Or  I 
 kind  of  want  almost  like  a  flag  stone 
 stepping  stone  pathway.  And  then  we're 
 going  to  take  the  rock  and  bunch  it 
 right  back  up  to  it.  And  that  way  it's 
 actually  set  in  that  stone.  So  you  kind 
 of  see  I  have  a  little  example  of  it 
 here.  This  is  a  very  small  path  that 
 leads  to  my  pond  here.  It's  just  nice 
 and  easy  to  step  on.  I  have  a  big  piece 
 here,  a  couple  small  pieces  here  for 
 individual  footing  where  it's  just  a 
 nice  easy  gradual  path.  If  I  create  the 
 curves  like  you  see  here  end  up  being  68 
 ft  that  I'm  working  with.  I  am  going  to 
 use  one  pallet  of  flag  stone.  You  want 
 to  make  sure  when  you're  shopping  for 
 flag  stone  pallets  or  pieces  that  you 
 have  multiple  sizes.  You  want  some  big 
 sizes.  You  want  some  small  sizes.  A  lot 
 of  times  when  you  get  a  pallet, 
 sometimes  it'll  have  all  big  pieces  or  a 
 bunch  of  little  small  pieces.  And  that 
 can  be  really  tricky  to  work  with.  You 
 want  some  good  footing,  some  things  that 
 you  can  work  on.  So  having  that 
 combination  is  going  to  be  ideal.  That 
 palette  is  going  to  run  around  $600.  So 
 it  can  be  a  bit  pricey.  We're  going  to 
 use  the  tan  stone.  It's  called  buff  and 
 color.  So  it  has  kind  of  some  tans,  a 
 little  bit  of  grays  in  there.  The 
 greystone  is  a  little  bit  more 
 expensive.  that  it's  about  $100  more  per 
 pallet,  but  I  wanted  some  variation 
 because  I  have  so  much  of  this 
 Greystone,  Tennessee  field  stone 
 throughout  the  rest  of  my  garden.  So,  I 
 thought,  let  me  bring  in  the  the  little 
 lesser  expensive  product  and  I  think 
 it's  going  to  blend  really  well.  And 
 then,  of  course,  we  already  have  the 
 gray  rock,  giving  me  a  little  bit  more 
 contrast  than  just  strictly  gray  on 
 gray.  And  the  next  thing  that  you're 
 going  to  need  is  you're  going  to  need 
 leveling  material.  Now,  some  people  do 
 it  with  sand.  And  you  can  absolutely 
 level  a  piece  of  flag  stone  with  sand  or 
 stepping  stones  with  sand,  but  I  really 
 love  the  cement  millings.  You'll  get  it 
 pretty  much  the  same  place  that  you  get 
 the  flag  stone  from.  It's  a  lot  cheaper 
 and  it  hardens  and  packs  down  after  a 
 few  rains.  So,  I  like  to  use  that 
 because  I  can  really  get  a  good  base  for 
 my  flag  stone.  Now,  once  you  do  that  and 
 you  connect  and  do  that  fully  through 
 the  whole  pathway,  then  after,  I  don't 
 know,  seven  or  eight  rains,  you're  going 
 to  notice  cement  starts  to  just  harden 
 all  the  way  around  the  stone.  It  will 
 not  turn  into  grout.  It  will  not  be  a 
 solid  surface,  but  it  does  a  great  job 
 of  packing  an  area,  not  making  the  flag 
 stone  itself  movable,  which  is  exactly 
 what  you  want  in  a  natural  flagstone 
 path.  A  half  a  yard,  which  is  what  we're 
 going  to  use  here,  cost  me  $48.  It's 
 definitely  worth  worth  the  cost 
 involved.  When  I  start  with  a  pathway 
 opening,  I  tend  to  really  like  to  make  a 
 nice  broad  wide  opening,  almost  like 
 just  a  grand  entrance  to  a  space. 
 Wherever  we  end,  I'll  end  it  with  that 
 same  wide  opening,  sometimes  even  wider, 
 just  to  kind  of  give  you  a  welcoming 
 feel  to  this  walkway  space.  Now,  this 
 particular  spot  right  here  is  almost 
 like  a  direct  focal  point  from  my  coffee 
 area,  my  seating  section  over  there.  So, 
 I  definitely  wanted  a  little  bit  of  room 
 to  make  this  interesting.  maybe  a  little 
 bird  bath  that  is  actually  a  bubbling 
 bird  bath  of  some  sort.  But  I  know  that 
 I  needed  space,  so  I  didn't  want  to 
 eliminate  by  creating  a  straight  pathway 
 leading  into  this  space  here.  Very 
 similar  to  how  they  do  the  botanical 
 gardens.  And  that's  kind  of  what  I  I 
 love  to  mimic  in  my  own  space.  When  you 
 go  to  resorts,  when  you  go  to  botanical 
 gardens  and  you're  walking  through  those 
 pathways,  there's  almost  something  for 
 you  to  visit.  Every  single  step  that  you 
 take,  like  you're  seeing  this,  and  this 
 is  kind  of  popping  out,  meander  to  the 
 left  a  little  bit  and  then  meander  to 
 the  right  a  little  bit.  want  to  get  a 
 good  visual  of  all  of  those  little 
 intricate  things  that  are  right  along 
 the  way.  So,  what  you  guys  were  watching 
 was  my  crew  dry  setting  the  flag  stone. 
 You  know,  you  know  the  direction,  you 
 know  the  angles  that  you're  going  to  go 
 in.  Go  ahead  and  start  laying  out  some 
 of  the  stones.  Start  piecing  it  together 
 like  your  little  puzzle  pieces.  Now,  I 
 like  to  do  this  more  of  a  casual  flag 
 stone  so  that  everything  is  not 
 intertwining.  There  are  no  cuts  that  are 
 made.  Do  you  want  it  a  little  bit  busier 
 pattern  with  some  smaller  pieces?  Do  you 
 have  some  bigger  chunks  that  you  know 
 that  you're  going  to  work  with?  whatever 
 that  might  be.  Kind  of  get  that  laid 
 out,  take  a  good  look,  step  back,  make 
 sure  you  like  the  pattern,  and  then 
 after  that,  walk  up  and  down  it  a  few 
 times.  I  want  to  be  able  to  walk  through 
 this  pathway  in  high  heels  if  I  have  to. 
 You  know,  I  want  to  be  able  to  make  sure 
 that  I  have  some  sure  footing  all  the 
 way  through.  If  I  feel  like  I'm  doing 
 like  a  stutter  step  because  one 
 flagstone  piece  is  too  small,  then  you 
 want  to  make  sure  to  adjust  that  at  that 
 point.  So  that  way  you're  not  regretting 
 that  single  step  halfway  through  every 
 single  time  you  walk  down  the  pathway. 
 Set  the  flag  stone  in  place.  Use  a 
 mallet  or  rubber  hammer.  Make  sure  it's 
 really  wedged  in  there  nice  and  tight 
 before  you  start  sealing  those  joints 
 back  with  rock.  You'll  notice  that  these 
 stones  are  different  sizes,  different 
 thicknesses.  And  that's  part  of  the 
 natural  beauty  of  flag  stone  is 
 nothing's  even  and  part  of  the 
 frustration.  So  he'll  level  this  out.  So 
 this  one  will  get  less  sand.  This  one 
 will  get  more  sand.  So  you're  doing  a 
 dry  set  on  that.  kind  of  keep  that  in 
 mind  so  you  kind  of  know  maybe  a  bigger 
 size  but  definitely  thinner.  So  you  want 
 to  make  sure  that  you  raise  it  on  the 
 kind  of  levels  and  that's  another  reason 
 why  they're  doing  this  in  segments.  By 
 doing  them  as  an  individual  grouping, 
 you're  really  saving  yourself  a  lot  of 
 time  and  you're  also  able  to  keep  that 
 pattern  nice  and  tight.  I'm  going  to 
 list  all  of  the  materials  here  for  you 
 guys.  So  screenshot  this  bad  boy  and 
 hopefully  it'll  help  you  with  your 
 shopping  list  of  gathering.  You're  going 
 to  need  a  rubber  mallet,  wheelbarrel,  a 
 tamper.  You're  going  to  need  all  of  that 
 just  to  start  this  project.  So  the  next 
 thing  you're  going  to  want  to  do  is 
 decide  on  the  type  of  edging  that  you're 
 going  to  use.  Whether  you're  going  to  do 
 the  aluminum  alloy  edging,  I  love  to  use 
 that  with  pathways.  You're  going  to  use 
 the  buta  edging.  You  can  use  something 
 really,  really  natural  like  I  have  the 
 stone  work  here.  So  whatever  that  might 
 be,  decide  on  that.  Gather  that  material 
 in  place.  Make  sure  you  have  a  good 
 linear  measurement  for  that  space.  So 
 that  way  you  can  really  kind  of  just 
 start  getting  that  in  place.  That's 
 going  to  hold  everything  together.  So  it 
 is  the  structure.  It  is  the  bones  of 
 getting  this  in.  Then  you're  going to 
 want  to  make  sure  that  you  have  your 
 weed  barrier  fabric  down  below.  Nicely 
 laid  on  solid  tamped  down  soil  depending 
 on  the  stage  that  you're  in.  I  picked  my 
 stone  next  because  that  was  where  my 
 budget  allowed  before  I  did  the  flag 
 stone.  I  have  Tahesian  gray  granite.  I 
 have  the  inch  and  a  half  here.  What's  a 
 little  bit  nicer  to  use  is  the  3/4  in  or 
 the  half  inch.  It's  a  little  bit  smaller 
 stone.  Knits  together  really  well.  Easy 
 to  walk  on  between  the  grooves  of  the 
 flag  stone.  So  it  can  allow  you  to  pull 
 the  flag  stone  a  little  bit  closer. 
 However,  in  my  situation,  this  area  gets 
 good  rain.  It's  a  drainage  easement.  So, 
 if  we  get  our  hurricanes,  we  get  water 
 in  this  little  alley  here.  So,  if  that 
 is  your  situation,  go  with  a  bigger 
 stone.  It  will  stay  put.  But  if  it's  the 
 beauty  and  you  have  a  nice  clean  area  to 
 work  with,  go  with  the  small  stone.  That 
 little  stone  joints  really  well 
 together.  Makes  for  a  perfect  walkway 
 space.  And  I  love  the  crunch  it  gives 
 when  you're  walking  through  an  area.  So, 
 next  on  the  materials  list  is  pick  your 
 flag  stone  pieces.  Big  pieces,  little 
 pieces.  Pick  a  nice  mixture  and  make 
 sure  that  you  get  a  nice  mix  into  your 
 palette.  Sometimes  the  pallets  are 
 already  prepalized  and  they  won't  let 
 you  separate  it  and  sometimes  they  will. 
 So  ask  that  question  because  if  you  can 
 get  a  nice  mix,  that's  really  what 
 you're  going to  need  so  you  don't  have 
 too  much  of  one  thing  and  it  looks  like 
 a  stepping  stone  pathway  with  just  using 
 flag  stone.  This  is  natural  material.  We 
 want  it  to  look  natural.  We  want  it  to 
 look  organic.  So  pick  something  that's 
 going  to  give  you  that  kind  of  feel, 
 that  kind  of  vibe.  So  obviously  one  of 
 the  most  important  things  is  what  the 
 flag  stone  is  going  to  sit  on  which  is 
 your  millings.  Whether  it  is  your 
 setting  sand  or  it  is  the  crushed 
 concrete  like  I  used  or  pa  millings 
 whatever  you  have  or  whatever  your  stone 
 yard  has  that  you're  going  to  work  with. 
 You  want  to  make  sure  that  that  is 
 something  that  you  have  in  your 
 wheelbarrow  with  a  shovel  right  at  your 
 fingertips  because  you're  going  to  set 
 that  as  you  work.  So  you're  going  to 
 pull  these  sections  out,  put  that 
 setting  stone  in  depending  on  the 
 heights  of  your  pavers.  Put  that  back  in 
 and  do  a  section  at  a  time.  So,  you're 
 going to  need  that  on  hand  all  the  time. 
 Now,  if  you  don't  have  a  wheelbarrow,  a 
 lot  of  times  the  stone  yards  will  have 
 that  exact  same  product  in  bags.  So,  you 
 can  put  them  in  an  individual  bags  and 
 just  line  the  bags  up  along  the  pathway. 
 So,  you  can  easily  cut  into  them  and 
 just  like  do  a  little  a  small  shovel  and 
 put  them  in  and  then  tamp  them  into 
 place.  So,  if  you're  doing  this  yourself 
 as  a  DIYer,  you  you  can  easily  work  with 
 each  piece  on  its  own.  So  you  can  pick 
 this  up,  move  this  around,  adjust  this 
 to  whatever  you  need  to  adjust  it  to  and 
 work  with  that  space.  You  might  need  an 
 extra  hand  with  some  of  those  little 
 bigger  pieces,  but  that's  the  best  part 
 about  Flag  Stone  is  that  you  can  do  it 
 yourself  as  a  nice  walking  pathway. 
 And  it  is  finished,  you  guys.  It  is 
 beautiful.  I  am  absolutely  in  love  with 
 this  space.  Please  let  me  know  what  you 
 guys  think.  I  think  it's  turned  out 
 really  well.  I  think  it's  a  great 
 combination  of  small  and  large  stones. 
 This  is  something  that  I  know  that  my 
 little  size  8  ft  could  fit  and  walk 
 down.  I  could  literally,  like  I  said, 
 walk  down  here  in  heels  because  I 
 totally  have  enough  footing  to  run 
 through  this  path.  And  I  that's  kind  of 
 what  I  wanted.  I  wanted  a  very  nice, 
 comfortable  path  to  just  stroll  down  as 
 I  walk  through  my  garden.  I'm  a  cup  of 
 coffee  drinker,  glass  of  wine  drinker.  I 
 like  feeling  like  I'm  walking  through 
 the  garden  and  enjoying  my  space  like  I 
 enjoy  botanical  garden  or  a  resort 
 garden  or  something  like  that  because 
 nothing  makes  you  feel  more  immersed  in 
 a  garden  setting  than  walking  directly 
 through  it.  You're  up  close  and 
 personal.  You're  checking  in  the  morning 
 who's  blooming,  who's  showing  off.  And 
 you  don't  get  that  unless  you're  down 
 here  down  here  in  the  walkway  enjoying 
 and  it's  right  in  your  face.  It's 
 something  that  you  get  to  really  be  a 
 part  of.  I  never  feel  more  in  the  moment 
 than  when  I'm  walking  through  my  garden 
 on  those  mornings  or  late  evenings. 
 That's  what  I  love  about  gardening 
 because  you  might  not  be  able  to  afford 
 it  all  at  once,  but  if  you  have  the 
 vision  and  you  have  the  patience,  you 
 really  can  create  these  perfect  spaces 
 that  are  just  for  you.  And  I  promise 
 you,  doing  that  makes  you  want  to  go  on 
 vacation  less,  makes  you  want  to  not  hop 
 that  plane,  makes  you  want  to  really 
 make  that  cocktail  and  sit  in  your 
 backyard  space  and  enjoy  your  own 
 environment.  And  I  know  that  it  does 
 that  for  my  clients.  And  speaking  of 
 design,  so  if  you  guys  are  looking  to 
 have  some  design  work  done,  then  you 
 know  your  girl  is  a  landscape  designer, 
 reach  out  to  us.  We'd  be  happy  to  meet 
 with  you  and  look  to  see  if  we  can 
 create  something  beautiful  in  your 
 space.  We  do  landscape  design,  landscape 
 installation,  and  virtual  consults  for 
 those  of  you  guys  who  have  just  little 
 key  areas  you  might  need  a  little  bit  of 
 insight  on.  We  will  be  sure  to  post  a 
 video  right  here  for  you  guys  to  enjoy. 
 This  was  a  tropical  cutting  garden.  Some 
 of  my  favorite  plants  and  trees  to  work 
 with  indoors  as  well  as  outdoors.  Thank 
 you  guys  again.  Take  care.  See  you  next 
 weekend.

---

 So,  you  want  to  know  how  to  make  your 
 garden  look  like  a  million  bucks? 
 [Music] 
 Well,  we're  going  to  talk  about  a  few 
 tips  to  really  kind  of  create  that  vibe, 
 create  that  feeling.  If  you  guys  are  in 
 the  planning  stages  of  creating  your  own 
 garden  and  you're  kind  of  wanting  to 
 know  how  to  make  it,  you  know,  from  your 
 typical  landscape  into  more  of  that  lush 
 tropical  resort-like  setting,  how  to 
 make  it  feel  maybe  a  little  bit  more 
 expensive,  but  do  that  more  on  a  dime 
 than,  you  know,  your  typical  garden 
 style.  Then  we're  going  to  go  over  a  few 
 things  that  you  can  do  that  really  kind 
 of  help  pull  all  that  together.  I'm  a 
 landscape  designer  of  over  25  years  and 
 we  have  a  landscape  design  and 
 installation  company.  So,  from  start  to 
 finish,  we  create  beautiful  landscapes 
 along  the  Treasure  and  Space  Coast.  We 
 also  do  design  work  and  recently  we 
 started  with  virtual  consultations.  We 
 have  more  information  down  below  and  see 
 if  we're  going  to  be  a  good  fit  for  you 
 guys.  The  first  tip  I  want  to  share  with 
 you  guys  is  vistas.  So,  the  first  tip  is 
 create  different  vistas  in  your  garden. 
 I  have  several  through  my  small  little 
 yard,  my  garden.  And  I'm  telling  you 
 guys,  creating  little  seating  sections 
 in  your  garden,  creating  different 
 rooms.  Oh  my  gosh,  that  makes  it  feel 
 more  like  a  resort  than  anything  else. 
 This  one  right  here  that  I'm  sitting  at 
 now  is  at  the  end  of  my  garden.  And 
 actually,  this  is  a  bit  of  a  cheat,  you 
 guys.  I  switched  the  seats  around  so  you 
 guys  can  see  what's  behind  me  so  you  see 
 when  I'm  sitting  here  what  I'm  actually 
 looking  at.  Normally  towards  the  end  of 
 the  day,  this  area  is  so  beautifully 
 shaded.  That  is  absolutely  stunning.  I 
 could  totally  sit  here,  have  a  glass  of 
 wine,  really  enjoy  this  area.  Pretty 
 much  immersed  in  the  garden.  And  this  is 
 one  of  my  favorite  spots.  When  is  the 
 hottest  part  of  the  day?  Picture  this. 
 This  is  where  you're  sitting  first  thing 
 in  the  morning  having  a  cup  of  coffee  in 
 your  true  gardener  mug,  enjoying  your 
 backyard  space,  enjoying  the  tropical 
 view  that  you've  created,  enjoying 
 seeing  what's  going  on  in  your  garden. 
 all  the  way  before  that  sun  strongly 
 hits  this  area.  This  is  my  I  would  say 
 6:00  a.m.  to  about  10:00  a.m.  time 
 frame.  About  10:00  a.m.  that  sun  is 
 right  over  top.  And  then  I'm  moving  on 
 to  another  vista  in  the  garden.  But  this 
 is  what  I  enjoy.  This  is  my  spot  right 
 here  that  I  spend  so  much  of  my  time  in. 
 So  this  is  our  morning  breakfast  area, 
 our  late  evening  area.  It's  undercover. 
 If  you  guys  are  able  to  do  that,  that  is 
 so  ideal  to  have  just  a  little  spot  in 
 your  garden  where  you're  outside  and  you 
 can  enjoy  your  dining  section.  This  over 
 here  is  where  we  enjoy  our  game  nights, 
 enjoy  sitting  by  the  fire  on  those 
 cooler  evenings.  I  know  a  lot  of  people 
 think  that  you  guys  have  to  have  this 
 big  expanse  of  a  space  to  really  have 
 different  vistas  or  different  rooms 
 throughout  the  garden  and  that  is  not 
 the  case.  I  mean,  these  are  almost 
 within  touching  distance.  We  have  a 
 table  and  chairs  there  for  for  us  and 
 our  family.  Then  you  move  right  on  to 
 this  seating  section  here.  Right  behind 
 is  that  seating  section  that  I  was  just 
 talking  about  a  moment  ago  where  I  come 
 out  and  have  my  cup  of  coffee.  Now,  this 
 feels  to  me  like  three  separate  rooms, 
 but  really  it's  within  a  small  square 
 footage  to  enjoy  the  outdoor  space.  It 
 feeds  us  gardeners  to  create  this 
 outdoor  space.  This  is  a  place  that  we 
 want  to  be.  This  is  a  place  we  want  to 
 sit.  It  just  kind  of  make  your  garden 
 feel  more  like  a  botanical  garden  where 
 you  go  from  one  area  to  another  area 
 connected  by  pathways.  You're  trying  to 
 make  your  garden  look  more  like  a 
 resort.  When  you  guys  are  traveling, 
 when  you're  having  those  tropical 
 vacations,  what  soothes  your  soul  the 
 most?  This  is  something  that  I'm  going 
 to  recreate  in  my  own  style,  in  my  own 
 space,  and  that's  ultimately  what  we  all 
 want.  So,  one  thing  that  resorts  and 
 those  kind  of  pricey  uh  restaurants  have 
 in  common  is  outdoor  lighting.  I  mean, 
 they  really  know  how  to  sell  that 
 atmosphere  and  that  comes  at  a  premium 
 for  all  of  us.  Use  some  soft  silhouette 
 lighting  in  your  own  garden  and  see  how 
 much  you  enjoy  just  cooking  that  steak 
 out  in  your  backyard.  You  know,  bringing 
 that  ambiance  to  your  backyard  space  and 
 having  dinner  outside.  I'm  going  to 
 share  with  you  some  serious  lighting 
 options.  The  first  one  is  overhead 
 lighting.  Now,  I  know  not  all  of  us  can 
 have  chandeliers  and  big  lights.  Mix 
 your  twinkle  lights  in.  Mix  your  little 
 Christmas  lights  in.  I  have  been  through 
 several  different  lighting  options.  This 
 is  one  of  my  favorite  because  you  get  so 
 many  lights  on  one  GFI  outlet.  If  you 
 have  overhead  structures,  a  tiki  hut,  an 
 overhead  cabana,  even  if  it's  umbrella 
 lighting,  wrap  these  bad  boys  up.  Really 
 kind  of  give  you  that  twinkle  fairy 
 light  overhead  rooftop  kind  of  feel  that 
 the  restaurants  offer  you  when  you're 
 outdoor  dining.  Another  area  that  I  have 
 them  in  is  along  my  walkway.  I've  kind 
 of  just  kind  of  meandered  them  through 
 all  natural  along  the  walkway  to  really 
 offer  that  little  bit  of  twinkle  right 
 through  the  greenery  of  the  garden.  Now, 
 I've  also  mix  them  with  cafe  lights 
 because  if  you  have  little  lights  and 
 you  have  big  lights  and  you  have  a 
 combination  of  it,  it  just  offers  so 
 much  ambiance.  I  chose  the  brighten  for 
 a  reason.  I  like  that  they  offer 
 different  colors.  So,  for  fall,  for 
 spring,  for  Fourth  of  July,  for  all  of 
 the  holidays,  I  like  to  have  one  set  of 
 lighting  instead  of  having  to  do  a  bunch 
 of  different  decorations.  However,  I 
 know  that  a  lot  of  people  use  lighting 
 as  their  outdoor  kind  of  overhead 
 structures,  but  don't  sleep  on  putting 
 them  in  the  garden.  I  have  155  ft  of 
 cafe  lights  that  run  through  the  middle 
 of  my  burm.  It  looks  like  little 
 fireflies  light  up  that  backyard  space 
 so  that  way  it's  not  directly  overhead. 
 It's  cast  out  into  the  shadows  of  the 
 palm  frrons  and  the  different  leaf 
 structures.  And  those  of  you  guys  who 
 think  that  gosh,  is  that  going  to  break 
 the  bank?  Not  at  all.  The  cafe  lights 
 are  around  $50,  $60.  And  if  you  guys 
 want  these  exact  lighting  options,  then 
 please  check  out  my  Amazon  storefront. 
 I'll  be  sure  to  put  those  links  down 
 below  in  the  description.  Things  that 
 have  done  well  in  my  garden,  the  lights 
 that  have  actually  held  up  for  a  long 
 period  of  time.  But  let's  pop  out  and 
 check  out  those  lights.  All right,  so  we 
 are  in  my  sideyard  now.  We  created  a 
 little  gate  entrance  that  comes  into  our 
 backyard  secret  garden.  And  we  do  not 
 have  electricity  here.  So,  what  I  did 
 choose  to  do  was  find  two  post  solar 
 lights.  These  guys  have  been  fabulous. 
 This  looks  like  glass,  but  it's  actually 
 a  very  hard  plastic.  And  this  area,  you 
 guys,  is  fairly  shaded.  So,  I  had  some 
 concerns  whether  or  not  that  this  was 
 going  to  be  something  that  was  going  to 
 really  light  up  the  space.  And  I  am 
 pleasantly  surprised  with  how  much  light 
 this  gives  off.  We  have  had  parties.  We 
 have  had  events  here  11,  12,  1:00  a.m. 
 These  lights  are  still  on.  And  so  I 
 absolutely  love  that  they  offer  they've 
 given  this  gate  a  gate  entrance  without 
 having  to  do  all  the  wiring  and  all  the 
 expense.  So  I  know  we  are  in  the  middle 
 of  the  day  so  you  guys  are  not  getting 
 the  benefit  of  what  this  is.  But  I 
 wanted  to  give  you  just  kind  of  a  point 
 of  reference  of  the  location  of  where 
 these  lights  are.  So  these  are  solar 
 lights.  These  are  two  solar  lights.  They 
 come  two  in  a  pack  and  I've  run  them 
 along  my  Kucia  hedge.  I  kind  of  softly 
 drape  like  this.  And  oh  gosh,  they're 
 just  so  cool.  They're  so  gorgeous.  They 
 add  a  little  bit  of  ambiance  right  to 
 the  front  of  my  space.  And  I  think 
 they're  fabulous  to  work  with.  And  one 
 great  thing  is  they're  inexpensive  and  I 
 don't  need  to  plug  them  in.  I  mean, 
 they're  literally  they're  not  costing  me 
 a  thing  once  I  purchase  them  initially. 
 So,  I've  had  them  for  a  couple  years. 
 Fabulous  to  work  with.  I'll  be  sure  to 
 put  them  in  the  description  down  below. 
 All right,  for  the  next  tip,  you  guys, 
 is  find  those  key  features,  just  those 
 perfect  things  that  show  your 
 personality.  I  know  you  can  go  shopping 
 and  find  all  kinds  of  cool  features  in  a 
 lot  of  those  outdoor  patio  decor  places, 
 but  do  not  sleep  on  places  like  Facebook 
 Marketplace.  buy  secondhand  if  you  can 
 because  I  have  found  so  many  cool  pieces 
 that  have  been  such  conversation  pieces 
 throughout  my  garden  and  that  I've 
 gotten  from  Facebook  Marketplace.  For 
 instance,  this  cool  sign  I  got  for  Bryce 
 and  Marissa's  wedding,  but  I  absolutely 
 fell  in  love  with  it.  And  then  I  found 
 this  greenery  wall  on  Amazon  to  kind  of 
 just  accentuate  it  and  really  kind  of 
 add  a  little  bit  of  ambiance  for  what 
 was  technically  not  a  very  interesting 
 wall  there.  So  that  goes  to  covering  up 
 some  of  your  spaces  with  some  little 
 interesting  features.  I  found  these  cute 
 little  hummingbirds  on  Facebook 
 Marketplace.  I  thought  they  were  just 
 such  a  nice  little  bit  of  charm.  I  got 
 this  old  window,  which  I  love.  That's  a 
 completely  different  style,  but  I  got 
 that  on  Facebook  Marketplace,  and  I  feel 
 like  it  fits  my  space.  It  fits  my 
 personality.  I  got  these  chandeliers  on 
 Facebook  Marketplace.  I  think  I'm  going 
 to  add  some  baskets,  some  kind  of  cool 
 lighting  that  hangs  underneath  of  them. 
 And  I'm  always  encouraging  my  clients, 
 hey,  if  you  want  a  fountain  and  you  want 
 it  on  a  budget,  go  to  Facebook 
 Marketplace,  see  what  you  can  find,  cuz 
 there's  always  some  cool  fountains  that 
 you  can  incorporate  into  your  garden. 
 Put  those  in  your  garden  and  then  voila, 
 you've  got  a  gorgeous  feature  for  a 
 tenth  of  the  price.  And  this  cool  gate 
 was  also  found  on  Facebook  Marketplace. 
 And  another  way  to  make  your  space  just 
 a  little  bit  more  luxurious,  really  kind 
 of  adding  a  little  bit  of  stonework, 
 adding  a  little bit  of  boulders.  Now,  I 
 know  this  isn't  as  cost-effective  as 
 some  of  the  other  things  that  we  talked 
 about.  However,  it  is  worth  its  weight 
 in  gold  because  it  gives  your  eye  a 
 place  to  rest.  It  really  changes  up  that 
 look  of  all  that  layered  tropical 
 foliage.  Love  this  little  rock  wall  that 
 we  created.  And  all  we  did  was  take 
 basketballized  boulders,  inset  them  flat 
 side  on  the  ground,  rounded  them  out.  It 
 gives  us  a  little  bit  of  a  different 
 look  that  we  did  enough  of  it  so  there's 
 a  theme.  So,  we  have  one  clean  line 
 edging,  one  rustic  edging,  one  kind  of 
 cool,  sleek,  contemporary  look.  I  feel 
 like  we  have  it  all  in  one  spot.  And  so 
 by  changing  up  the  elements  like  that, 
 it  makes  your  garden  look  more 
 luxurious.  Whether  it's  a  stone  path 
 like  you  see  here,  maybe  even 
 incorporating  a  little  flag  stone.  Oh 
 gosh,  I  love  that  look.  Adds  that  charm, 
 that  ambiance  to  a  space.  So,  as  we're 
 walking  to  the  next  and  last  tip,  you 
 guys,  please,  if  there's  anything  that 
 you've  done  in  your  garden  and  it  has 
 just  been  a  humdinger,  it's  been  the 
 thing  that  like,  oh  my  gosh,  this  made 
 all  the  difference  in  the  world  and  it 
 didn't  cost  you  a  pretty  penny,  please 
 list  in  the  comments  down  below.  share 
 it  with  this  community  because  we  are 
 all  looking  for  inspiration  and  ideas  to 
 create  just  that  perfect  outdoor  resort, 
 that  perfect  outdoor  space.  And  if  you 
 guys  like  this  content,  please  like, 
 subscribe,  hit  that  notification  bell. 
 But  now  for  the  last  tip  for  today,  find 
 a  key  feature.  Now,  take  your  time  with 
 this  because  it  took  me  a  little  while 
 to  find  what  I  wanted  to  become  a  focal 
 point.  It  does  not  have  to  be  big.  It 
 can  be  small  like  a  ponytail  palm,  like 
 a  desert  rose.  It  does  not  have  to  be 
 anything  large,  but  something 
 interesting,  something  you  want  to 
 showcase  and  then  you  can  incorporate 
 small  things  after  that.  So,  I  know 
 necessarily  this  might  not  be  the 
 cheapest  thing  in  the  garden  center. 
 However,  if  you  get  it  young  in  a  small 
 pot,  then  you  know  it's  going  to  be 
 large  and  beautiful  and  interesting  as 
 it  gets  some  size  to  it.  Like  this  girl 
 behind  me.  This  Madagascar  palm  was  $120 
 when  I  got  her.  I  got  her  from  a  garden 
 center.  She  didn't  have  all  of  these 
 cool  sprawling  trunks,  but  I  knew  she 
 was  going  to  be  a  key  feature  in  my 
 garden.  So,  she  got  forefront  up  close 
 VIP  status  kind  of  feel  because  I  knew 
 that  I  love  the  look  of  this  tree.  All 
 the  pictures  I've  seen  of  them  are  just 
 awesome.  I  made  a  perfect  place  for  her. 
 I  put  her  in  a  rock  garden.  I  lifted  her 
 up  out  of  the  swale  so  she  has  more 
 drainage.  But  I  made  sure  that  she  was 
 going to  be  something  that  I  not  only 
 saw  from  my  seating  section,  my  favorite 
 seating  section,  but  I  saw  from  inside 
 my  kitchen  area.  I  saw  from  where  I  do 
 the  dishes.  I  saw  from  my  seating 
 section  inside.  I  made  sure  that  she  was 
 in  that  spot  that  drew  me  out  into  the 
 garden.  And  that's  what  these  key  things 
 are  about.  From  one  window  in  your  house 
 or  right  from  the  front  door  when  you 
 walk  in  and  put  that  thing  right  there 
 for  front  right  in  your  garden.  Make 
 that  the  focal  point  that  you  build 
 everything  around.  That's  exactly  what 
 this  gal  does  in  my  garden.  Thank  you 
 guys  for  watching.  If  you  enjoyed 
 today's  video,  then  you  will  enjoy  last 
 week's  video,  which  was  about  bringing 
 the  outdoors  inside  with  a  beautiful 
 option  for  some  gorgeous  cutting  gardens 
 to  bring  indoors.  Thank  you  so  much. 
 Take  care.  I  will  see  you  guys  next 
 weekend.

---

 [Music] 
 Well,  hello  gardeners.  Welcome  back.  We 
 are  in  Stewart,  Florida  today,  zone  10A, 
 and  we  have  brought  the  jungle  inside. 
 So,  today's  garden  that  we  are  going  to 
 tour  is  just  so  magical.  I  think  it  is  a 
 wellthoughtout  outdoor  space  between 
 it's  such  a  merging  between  what  my 
 clients  did  and  what  they  brought  me  in 
 to  do  that  I  thought  I'm  going  to  share 
 it  with  you  guys  because  if  you  guys  are 
 in  the  beginning  stages  of  maybe 
 planning  your  outdoor  space  and  you're 
 not  sure  exactly,  you  know,  which 
 direction  you're  going  in  yet.  I  think 
 this  came  together  so  beautifully.  So, 
 I'm  just  going  to  share  with  you  what  I 
 think  might  give  you  some  inspiration  to 
 go  that  route.  But  before  we  get 
 started,  you  guys  please  like  and 
 subscribe.  Hit  that  little  notification 
 bell.  Bryce  and  I  post  every  single 
 weekend.  Often  it  is  projects  that  we've 
 just  completed.  As  you  guys  know,  your 
 girl  is  a  landscape  designer  and  we 
 design  and  install  these  projects  that  I 
 share  with  you,  but  we  also  offer  design 
 services  only.  And  we  offer  virtual 
 consults.  If  you're  looking  to  have  some 
 work  done,  please  reach  out  to  us.  But 
 for  now,  let's  kind  of  just  jump  into 
 some  of  these  cool  features.  So,  when  I 
 get  to  most  homes,  I'm  usually  in  after 
 the  fact.  You  know,  after  the 
 construction  is  done  and  I'm  just 
 dealing  with  what's  left  over.  In  this 
 particular  situation,  I  got  to  come  in  a 
 little  bit  earlier.  A  lot  of  the 
 planning  was  already  done  where  the 
 clients  have  decided  they  definitely 
 wanted  some  planters.  They  definitely 
 wanted  a  water  feature.  Now,  what  they 
 did  is  they  have  a  gorgeous  turf  along 
 this  linear  section,  which  in  most  cases 
 around  a  pool  is  kind  of  either  wasted 
 space  or  become  like  for  loungers.  Her 
 husband's  a  big  golfer,  so  encourages 
 them  to  come  out,  do  a  little  putt  putt 
 if  they  want.  This  is  just  kind  of  a 
 nice  linear  space  to  encourage,  you 
 know,  games  when  you're  out  here  in  the 
 pool  area,  in  the  pool  space,  and  you're 
 out  of  the  elements.  You're  out  of  the 
 bugs.  So,  it's  kind  of  a  nice  feel.  They 
 went  ahead  and  put  in  the  taller  pool 
 screen.  I  love  how  open  and  airy  this 
 feels.  I  don't  feel  like  they  lost  much, 
 if  any,  light.  It  just  feels  just  like  a 
 big  giant  room,  a  giant  outdoor  room  in 
 here.  And  then  they  left  me  with  some 
 planter  space  back  here.  They're  like, 
 "Okay,  this  whole  space  back  here  is 
 yours  to  do  what  you  want  to  do  with." 
 Which,  as  you  can  see,  it's  kind  of 
 right  up  my  alley.  So,  that's  exactly 
 what  we  did.  Now,  they  definitely  wanted 
 this  large  water  feature  here.  They  went 
 with  something  that  would  be  a  little 
 bit  of  a  softer  look.  They  went  with 
 Tennessee  Fieldstone  waterfall.  That 
 would  kind  of  give  this  area  a  little 
 bit  of  a  rustic  vibe,  which  I  think  is  a 
 cool  switch  because  most  of  my  water 
 features  around  pool  areas  usually 
 happen  to  be  the  wall  water  feature,  the 
 spouts  or  the  bowls  or  whatnot.  So,  I 
 think  this  is  kind  of  a  nice  touch  and 
 it  kind  of  really  does  add  a  little  bit 
 of  that  rustic  charm  to  a  very  serene 
 back  space.  So,  since  they  had  that 
 already  in  place,  I  went  ahead  and 
 incorporated  stone  beds  in  this  area.  We 
 chose  an  Indian  River  Creek  rock  that  I 
 think  ties  in  nice  with  the  pool 
 borders.  The  colors  complement  super 
 well.  And  then  I  tucked  in  some 
 Tennessee  field  stone  within  the 
 planters  just  to  kind  of,  you  know,  pay 
 homage  to  the  waterfall  itself.  And  I 
 think  that  that  really  tied  in  with  that 
 tropical  look.  And  I  think  that's  so 
 great  how  you  can  mix  that  kind  of 
 mountainous  kind  of  stone  feel  with  the 
 tropical  vibe  and  it  still  gives  you  a 
 very  jungle  jungle  vibe.  Directly  behind 
 me  here  is  a  nice  pathway.  I  believe 
 it's  18  in  that  goes  all  the  way  behind 
 connecting  the  two  spaces  so  you  can 
 maintain  from  the  back  side  of  this  pool 
 planter  as  well  as  from  the  front. 
 Probably  be  easier  from  the  back  side. 
 There's  definitely  a  good  maintenance 
 path  back  there.  And  I  love  that  you  can 
 pass  right  through  and  go  to  the  outdoor 
 kitchen  and  the  other  section  of  the 
 patio  over  there.  So  to  me,  this  is  just 
 such  a  really  well-laidout  backyard 
 space.  I  feel  like  it  has  everything 
 that  you  need.  playground  for  adults, 
 beautiful  gardens  to  feel  like  you're  in 
 a  tropical  resort,  a  maintenance  path  to 
 the  back,  entertaining  and  dining  to  the 
 right,  and  then  of  course  everything 
 from  the  inside  right  from  their  front 
 door  looks  out  to  this  back  space.  And 
 then  to  top  it  off,  they  brought  in 
 these  cool  lanterns.  Oh  my  gosh,  you 
 guys,  those  light  up  with  fire  and  go 
 straight  up.  And  then  voila,  this  is 
 just  entertainment  central.  We're  going 
 to  go  through  the  plants  and  trees  like 
 we  normally  do  on  a  garden  tour,  but 
 really  to  me  what  the  star  of  the  show 
 really  is  is  just  the  placement  of 
 everything  that's  here,  the  layout,  and 
 then  of  course,  you  know,  the  plants  and 
 the  trees  always  do  what  they  do,  which 
 is  offer  a  softness  to  a  space.  Really 
 take  this  big  space  from  being  open  and 
 empty  to  nestled  and  retreat  like.  For 
 our  anchor  feature,  I  chose  our  King 
 Alexander  and  I  had  it  just  kind  of  pull 
 forward.  As  you  guys  know,  I  love 
 curves.  So,  having  something  blunt  stop 
 here,  I  was  just  not  having  it.  So,  we 
 were  able  to  curve  this  into  this 
 section  of  the  garden  to  kind  of  wrap  it 
 around  this  gorgeous  curve  of  the  pool 
 area.  And  I  think  it  did  just  the  trick. 
 We've  got  Sanchezia  to  the  back  that  are 
 really  going  to  flush  out  and  be  a 
 gorgeous  four  or  5ft  tall  back  there. 
 Really  nice  and  lush.  And  then  ice  tone 
 croins  on  to  the  front.  Now,  right  now, 
 because  this  is  a  fairly  newly  planted 
 space,  the  Icetone  Croins  are  a  little 
 bit  bigger  than  the  Sanchezia  because 
 they  grow  so  much  slower.  So,  I  brought 
 these  in  at  a  10gon  size.  And  then  the 
 Sanchezia,  they're  super  growers. 
 There's  no  sense  in  spending  the  money 
 and  upping  the  pot  size.  So,  I  got  those 
 in  three  gallons.  So,  in  no  time,  those 
 will  kind  of  catch  up  and  become  a  nice 
 4ft  sea  of  bright  green  and  yellow  color 
 to  the  backdrop,  allowing  these  this 
 perfect  color  of  the  ice  teens  to  really 
 shine.  What  I  love  about  ice  te  croins 
 is  they  really  kind  of  mound  out.  Look 
 at  what  a  nice  kind  of  rounded  look  a 
 croin  can  give.  A  lot  of  them  have  a 
 tendency  to  go  sprawling  and  be  a  little 
 bit  crazy.  These  are  chunky,  tight,  and 
 compact.  This  is  the  perfect  environment 
 for  them.  They  love  the  protection  of 
 what  this  screen  is  offering.  So,  a 
 little  filtered  light  goes  a  long  way 
 with  these  girls.  They  can  be  drama 
 queens.  If  they're  out  in  the  full  sun, 
 they'll  just  be  like,  but  in  here  they 
 love  it.  So  ice  te  croins  from  morning 
 sun,  midday  sun,  but  not  evening  sun. 
 See  this  one  that's  out  in  the  sun  more. 
 Look  how  much  more  color  it  offers.  I 
 mean  that  brightness,  that  multicolored 
 tone  in  those  leaves.  Just  stunning.  And 
 then  this  one  that's  underneath  the  king 
 Alexander.  How  much  coverage  that  that's 
 giving  for  color.  And  look  at  how  dark 
 green  it  is  and  some  of  this  darker 
 foliage  down  below.  I  mean,  it's  just 
 crazy  how  light  changes  the  look  of  a 
 leaf  pattern.  We  used  an  aluminum  alloy 
 edging  to  give  us  a  nice  clean  defined 
 look.  And  I  think  that  it  pairs  just 
 beautifully  as  you  enter  from  clean  zone 
 to  the  jungle.  I  love  how  that  that 
 transition  is  just  so  dramatic.  I  think 
 it  turned  out  so  lovely.  Right  here  is 
 golden  sedum  right  at  the  base.  Then 
 right  over  here  are  my  favorite.  These 
 are  the  Marie  agimas.  These  are  a 
 perfect  little  ground  cover.  These  are 
 what  would  be  on  the  jungle  floor  of  any 
 jungle.  So  these  grow  very  very  slow, 
 stay  very  very  compact,  have  a  gorgeous 
 variegated  leaf  color.  Not  too  bright, 
 not  too  dark,  almost  give  you  more  of  a 
 green  backdrop.  And  so  that  way  you  can 
 pair  it  with  something  more  colorful 
 like  the  ice  tone  croins.  But  I  love  how 
 delicate,  how  small,  how  compact,  and 
 how  easy  care  because  they  grow  so  slow. 
 Trimming  is  pretty  non-existent.  You'll 
 maybe  trim  twice  a  year  on  these  guys.  I 
 wanted  something  very,  very  low 
 maintenance  in  this  particular  spot,  and 
 these  guys  will  do  that  trick.  Another 
 lowmaintenance  plant  is  the  emperialis 
 burmilad.  This  guy  is  more  of  the  green 
 tone.  You  can  see  the  one  that  I  have  at 
 my  house  has  more  purple  to  it.  The 
 green,  this  is  what  it  looks  like  in 
 more  of  a  shaded  environment.  So,  but 
 what  I  wanted  was  something  dynamic  that 
 wouldn't  spread  or  wouldn't  go  to  town 
 in  such  a  small  area.  And  of  course,  as 
 you  guys  know  what  I  love  about  the 
 Imperialis  is  wherever  you  put  them, 
 they  stay.  They'll  grow  3  and  1/2t  by  3 
 and  1/2  wide.  Ideal  for  a  little  spot 
 just  like  this.  So,  these  guys  are 
 framing  the  centerpiece  here,  which  is 
 the  triple  bottle  palm.  You  guys  know 
 how  I  feel  about  the  triple  bottle  palm. 
 This  guy  will  get  14,  15t  tall,  widen 
 out  as  it  branches  up.  Could  you  imagine 
 when  this  guy  gets  over  here  and  the 
 fronds  are  above  the  pool  water  line  and 
 just  going  to  be  stunners  in  this  space. 
 I  cannot  wait  to  see  that  as  that  kind 
 of  unfolds  and  these  trunks  widen  out 
 like  this.  This  one's  going  to  grow  a 
 heck  of  a  lot  slower,  I  guess, 
 unfortunately  because  it  isn't  a 
 planter,  so  there's  not  a  lot  of  room 
 for  roots  to  grow.  Speaking  of  roots, 
 these  trees  that  I  put  in  here  are  soft 
 tip  roots,  what  we  call  courtyard  palms, 
 things  that  are  not  going  to  be  invasive 
 into  the  pool  area.  They're  not  like  a 
 bismar  or  a  royal  palm  or  a  queen  palm, 
 even  a  Christmas  palm.  Those  are  things 
 that  the  roots  can  be  very,  very 
 aggressive.  So,  you  kind  of  want  to  stay 
 away  from  those  so  close  to  the  pool 
 wall  line.  So,  these  are  a  delicate 
 feature,  as  is  all  the  other  small 
 plantings  that  are  here.  So,  this  is 
 definitely  little  planter  approved.  So, 
 the  triple  bottle  palm  is  going  to  be 
 the  anchor  points  to  this  beautiful 
 water  feature.  And  as  you  can  see,  we 
 have  them  on  both  sides.  That  way,  in  no 
 way,  this  waterfall,  it's  the  accent 
 that  it  was  intended  to  be.  We  don't 
 want  it  to  master  the  whole  pool  area. 
 We  don't  want  it  to  be  the  total  focal 
 point  and  everything  else  around  it  to 
 be  so  small  that  it's  the  biggest  guy  in 
 the  room.  It's  supposed  to  be  nestled. 
 It's  supposed  to  be  intimate.  It's 
 supposed  to  be  wrapped  around.  And  I 
 think  that's  what  we  were  trying  to 
 create  here  was  really  to  soften  it.  Let 
 it  be  the  focal  point,  but  soften  it.  I 
 think  it  worked  out.  I  think  it  happens. 
 So,  so  yes,  keep  that  in  mind  if  you've 
 got  a  big  feature,  whatever  that  feature 
 might  be  in  your  own  space.  All right, 
 so  we're  going  to  make  our  way  to  the 
 pool  area.  Now,  what  I  love,  and  if  you 
 guys  can  manage  to  do  this,  give 
 yourself  at least  18  in  behind  your  pool 
 planters  on  the  inside.  I  mean,  look 
 between  the  inside  of  the  screen  and  the 
 pool  planter  here,  connecting  the  two 
 spaces  and  leaving  yourself  an  easy 
 maintenance  pathway  because  again,  it 
 would  be  tough  to  maintain  it  from  the 
 front.  So  that  really  allows  you  to  get 
 into  the  pool  planters  from  the  back 
 side.  So,  and  then  I  love  how  it 
 connects  the  two  spaces  instead  of 
 having  to  go  all  the  way  around  from  the 
 front  if  you're  in  the  back  section.  So 
 on  this  side,  it  is  more  of  a  rinse  and 
 repeat.  You  can  see  how  narrow  this 
 space  is.  I  think  we  had  4  foot  to  work 
 with.  We  have  burl  marks  here.  So  we 
 have  four  burl  marks.  Look  at  how  nice 
 and  open  and  rounded  these  guys  get. 
 Just  so  tropical.  Such  a  perfect  little 
 leafed  plant.  Perfect  for  a  clean  back 
 border  that  doesn't  look  like  a  hedge. 
 So  to  me  this  is  what  I  call  a  tropical 
 hedge.  They  will  create  a  nice  backdrop 
 of  green  to  show  off  color  to  the  front. 
 And  then  of  course  we  have  two 
 imperialis  burmilads  and  then  just 
 aglion  maras  for  the  base  here.  And  then 
 of  course  we  popped  in  some  boulders. 
 And  when  you  guys  pop  in  your  boulders 
 into  your  landscape,  set  them  in  at  an 
 angles.  Maybe  pop  prop  them  up.  Put  some 
 soil  around  them  so  they're  tilted  up. 
 Just  kind  of  give  them  a  little  bit  of 
 interest  to  really  fit  the  space  that 
 you're  going  to  work  in.  I  think  these 
 guys  look  so  good  in  the  landscape.  They 
 kind  of  complement  and  pay  homage  to  the 
 water  feature  in  the  middle  and  just 
 kind  of  really  tie  everything  together. 
 So  to  me,  field  stone  is  an  ideal  thing 
 to  incorporate.  Some  little  neo 
 burmilads  in  the  middle  just  to  give  us 
 a  little  bit  of  that  color.  And  then 
 right  along  the  waterfall,  I  know  we 
 didn't  touch  on  that,  but  those  are  some 
 trailing  ice  plants.  And  I  just  think 
 those  variegated  ice,  I've  used  them  in 
 pots  and  planters  and  hanging  baskets. 
 They  can  handle  drought.  They  can  handle 
 too  much  moisture.  They  can  handle  They 
 can  handle  pretty  much  anything.  You 
 have  to  trim  them  about  every  other 
 month  to  kind  of  keep  them  where  you 
 want  them,  but  they  do  grow  profusely, 
 which  is  a  nice  option  for  a  trailing 
 plant.  So,  we've  got  a  cardboard  palm  in 
 here.  Now,  those  of  you  guys  who  know 
 what  this  guy's  going  to  do,  I  know  I 
 can  see  the  comments  right  now.  Oh  my 
 god,  a  cardboard  palm.  It's  going  to  get 
 huge  cuz  they  will  get  up  to  6  feet.  I 
 know.  But  this  is  a  very  small  planter. 
 We  backfilled  it  with  rocks,  so  it's  got 
 very,  very  little  places  to  go.  But  I  do 
 want  around  this  waterfall  to  have  a 
 little  chaos,  to  have  a  little  crazy.  I 
 want  those  leaves  to  go  that  way  and 
 this  way  and  kind  of  really  fill  in  this 
 space  and  not  have  such  a  hard  edge.  I 
 will  slide  in  a  picture  of  what  this 
 waterfall  looked  like  before  and  it  was 
 a  complete  U.  It  was  too  perfect,  too 
 angled  and  I  wanted  this  to  feel  softer, 
 feel  more  natural  and  so  I  think  that 
 having  some  of  this  crazy  going  on  right 
 near  the  water  feature  soften  the  eye 
 when  it  came  to  that.  So  that's  exactly 
 what  I  was  going  for.  Flanking  either 
 side  into  the  bigger  planters  are  giant 
 aposle  iris.  Now,  these  are  fantastic 
 for  small  planters.  They  can  also 
 actually  live  right  in  the  waterline. 
 So,  if  my  clients  wanted  them  right  here 
 in  the  water,  they  could  absolutely  live 
 right  here  and  enjoy  and  root  in  and  be 
 very,  very  happy.  I  had  them  in  my  pond 
 and  I  absolutely  love  them  right  in  the 
 water.  They're  a  nice  flanking  point 
 here  to  again  soften  these  hard  corners 
 of  the  water  feature  from  this  big  U. 
 These  are  tiki  torches.  They're  lit  up 
 with  propane  down  below,  so  they're 
 pre-plumbed.  So,  if  you  guys  are  in  the 
 beginning  stages  again  and  you  like  the 
 look  of  fire  above,  this  is  such  a  cool 
 look.  These  light  up  and  go  straight  up 
 and  really  give  you  a  gorgeous  flame  at 
 night.  It  really  kind  of  just  brings  you 
 to  that  resort-like  feel.  It  really  just 
 kind  of  pulls  it  all  together.  I  love 
 how  this  area  has  turned  out  and  created 
 that  jungle  vibe.  Funny  enough,  the 
 planters  are  the  smallest  thing  in  this 
 whole  backyard  space,  and  I  feel  like 
 that's  what  you  see  first,  but  maybe 
 that's  just  what  I  see  first.  I  don't 
 know.  You  guys  will  have  to  let  me  know. 
 Well,  you  guys,  thank  you  so  much  for 
 joining  us  today.  It  was  a  pleasure  kind 
 of  sharing  this  garden  with  you.  I  hope 
 it  gave  you  some  great  ideas.  And  if  you 
 loved  today's  video,  then  please  check 
 out  our  most  recent  garden  tour.  This 
 way,  Bryce  says  he's  going  to  post  it 
 right  on  the  screen.  We  will  see  you 
 guys  next  weekend.  Take  care.

---

 [Music] 
 So,  not  everyone  has  a  huge  grand  front 
 yard  to  work  with,  and  that  is  exactly 
 what  happened  in  this  front  yard  space. 
 This  is  a  beautiful  community  in  Port 
 St.  Lucy,  Florida.  However,  the  front 
 yards,  they  have  a  lot  to  be  desired. 
 You  know,  they're  they're  kind  of 
 compact,  kind  of  small.  The  contractor 
 developer  only  lets  you  have  so  much 
 space  to  work  with.  So,  we  really  had  a 
 very  constricted  front  yard  space  to 
 work  with.  And  I  know  a  lot  of  you  guys 
 are  in  the  same  boat,  whether  it's  a 
 front  yard,  courtyard  area,  a  little 
 corner,  sideyard,  kind  of  like  my 
 sideyard  where  those  are  just  tough 
 spots  to  really  kind  of  create  some 
 magic  in.  So,  I  thought  today  I'd  bring 
 you  guys  along  and  share  with  you  what 
 we  did  for  this  particular  space.  That 
 way,  if  you  guys  have  one  of  those  areas 
 and  you're  like,  what  do  I  do  to  have 
 impact  but  not,  you  know,  have  your 
 typical  Florida  garden  where  it  looks 
 good  initially  and  then  w  at  maturity  it 
 turns  into  10  times  the  size.  and 
 outgrows  that  small  area.  So,  in  this 
 garden,  we  definitely  thought  about 
 that.  Planting  is  key  for  small  spaces 
 in  Florida  because  they  really  outgrow 
 an  environment  very,  very  quickly  if  you 
 do  not  plan  for  that.  So,  we're  going  to 
 go  over  some  combination  plant  groupings 
 that  I  think  that  you  can  just  kind  of 
 take  away  into  your  own  space  and 
 recreate  the  same  type  of  vibe,  the  same 
 type  of  look  if  that's  what  you're 
 looking  for.  I  designed  this  garden  and 
 my  installation  team  put  it  in  a  couple 
 weeks  ago  and  that's  really  why  I  want 
 to  bring  you  guys  along  and  I'm  hoping 
 that  my  clients  will  invite  us  back  in  a 
 few  months  and  you  guys  will  really  get 
 to  see  it  in  8  months  to  a  year  as  it 
 matures  and  flushes  out  and  check  out  in 
 the  description  all  the  services  that  we 
 offer.  But  right  now,  I  really  want  to 
 jump  into  this  front  yard  garden  and  get 
 started.  So,  let's  do  that.  These  homes 
 are  so  beautiful.  The  interior  is  set  up 
 so  well.  The  exterior  gorgeous  setting 
 in  this  community.  But  to  start  with, 
 right  on  the  left  side,  we  have  the 
 large  driveway  that  goes  into  the  garage 
 and  then  almost  like  a  secondary 
 walkway/d  driveway  for  the  uh  golf  cart 
 that  goes  into  the  golf  cart  garage  and 
 then  a  small  front  yard  and  a  small 
 little  median  section  dead  center.  So, 
 it  could  be  a  bit  challenging  to  figure 
 out  what  you  want  to  do  in  this  space. 
 Several  people  have  left  this  pretty 
 blank  and  just  let  this  be  a  grass 
 patch.  But,  I  really  do  like  the  way 
 this  looks.  That  way  we  framed  both 
 sides  and  the  front  entryway  with 
 landscaping.  So  to  start  with,  we  have 
 two  beautiful  foxtail  palms.  Really 
 given  a  lot  of  ump  right  as  soon  as  you 
 walk  in.  You  guys  know  how  I  feel  about 
 walking  underneath  a  canopy  of  fronds.  I 
 just  think  that  that's  just  so  charming. 
 Gives  so  much  instant  impact  right  away. 
 So  anytime  you  can  do  a  street  planting 
 that  offers  you  a  big  canopy  entrance, 
 to  me,  it's  almost  like  having  a  gate 
 right  at  the  front  entrance.  So  that 
 really  gives  you  that  big  impact  coming 
 right  up  the  front.  We  lead  over  to  this 
 little  section  of  the  garden.  Now,  this 
 is  about  six  foot  deep.  So,  it's  a  very, 
 very  small  width  section  to  work  with. 
 So,  there's  not  many  trees  that  you  can 
 incorporate  into  this  space.  Since  we 
 had  big  palms  right  at  the  front,  I 
 wanted  something  squattier,  something 
 chunkier  right  in  this  middle  to  really 
 offer  like  an  a  lot  of  impact,  a  lot  of 
 sculptural  impact  for  a  small  space.  And 
 that's  what  this  triple  bottle  palm  is 
 going  to  do,  you  guys.  It's  still  a  baby 
 about  5  and  1/2  just  under  6'  tall.  It's 
 a  25gallon  size.  So  it's  a  great  size  to 
 start  with  if  your  budget  allows  and  you 
 can  get  a  65gallon  that  is  going  to  get 
 the  canopy  fronds  a  little  bit  over  the 
 headline  of  people  as  they  walk  through. 
 My  clients  know  that  these  fronds  are 
 going to  breach  over  into  into  the 
 pavers  a  little  bit,  but  they're  kind  of 
 like  me  where  they  don't  mind  a  little 
 bit  of  uh  obscurity  from  the  pavers.  So 
 I  think  that's  going  to  work  just  fine. 
 Now  this  tree  will  mature  out  to  14 
 foot.  So  that's  ideal  for  this  size.  So 
 it's  going  to  go  straight  up.  Those 
 fronds  will  come  over  and  across  and 
 kind  of  breach  over  into  this  way  and 
 breach  over  into  that  way  and  be  the 
 perfect  anchor  for  such  a  small  space. 
 And  because  this  is  such  a  slow  growing 
 palm,  giving  you  about  a  foot  a  year,  it 
 really  does  stay  put  for  a  long  period 
 of  time.  So  it's  always  in  the  eye  of 
 the  landscape.  It's  kind  of  always  in 
 your  eyesight  line,  unlike  a  lot  of  our 
 tall  palms.  Even  our  foxtail  palms  can 
 get  above  our  view  line  in  in  time.  But 
 this  tree  will  always  stay  within  that 
 line.  So  every  time  when  these  foxtail 
 palms  get  27  to  30  foot  tall,  they're 
 still  going  to  be  gorgeous.  But  this 
 will  be  a  nice  14  foot  backdrop  to  this 
 trunk  of  this  foxtail.  Kind  of  a 
 waterfall  effect  as  as  you  get  to  the 
 back.  So  I  think  it's  absolutely  just  a 
 stunning  little  collection  of  plants. 
 Now  to  either  side  of  it,  I  have  two 
 mango  croins.  These  are  7gallon  mango 
 croins.  What  I  love  about  these,  you 
 guys,  is  they  stay  short  and  chunky.  So 
 you  can  keep  these  guys  3  foot  by  3T.  So 
 they're  never  going  to  outgrow  this 
 spot.  So  they're  going  to  widen  into 
 this  area  here  and  widen  to  just  below 
 the  trunk  line  here.  So  it's  going  to 
 have  kind  of a  nice  chunky  overall  look. 
 I  love  the  variation  in  color.  During 
 the  winter  time,  they  tend  to  get  a 
 little  bit  darker  in  tone,  a  little  bit 
 of  that  reddish  tone  with  the  greens  and 
 the  tips  of  the  yellow.  During  the 
 summer,  they  have  more  of  the  yellow 
 tones.  And  you  can  kind  of  see  that 
 variation  from  the  winter  growth  to  the 
 summer  growth.  And  I  just  absolutely 
 love  that  they  offer  you  two  different 
 variations  in  color  throughout  the  year. 
 And  of  course,  they're  so  easy  to 
 maintain.  You  just  clip  what  you  don't 
 want  off.  You  just  take  that  top  trunk 
 off  of  the  tallest  one  to  kind  of  keep 
 them  more  mushroomed,  more  more 
 manageable  and  compact.  And  because 
 they're  such  slow  growers,  you  can  do 
 that  very  little.  So,  I  do  that  about 
 every  every  90  days.  And  you  could 
 pretty  much  probably  just  do  that  twice 
 a  year  if  you  if  you  really  kind  of  want 
 to  leave  it  more  soft  and  more  natural. 
 Now,  another  alternate  option  if  you 
 cannot  find  mango  croins  in  your  nursery 
 are  pie  crust  croins,  magnificent  croins 
 or  congo  croins.  Those  are  all  varieties 
 that  can  stay  chunky  and  kind  of  broaden 
 and  wide  out  like  that.  All  have  a  nice 
 big  leaf  to  them.  So,  they  really  do 
 give  you  that  nice  tropical  look  and  you 
 can  keep  them  3T  tall  without  too  much 
 care.  And  because  they  grow  so  slow, 
 that's  where  the  low  maintenance  comes 
 in.  However,  I  do  want  to  mention  when 
 it  comes  to  those  bigger  leafed  croins, 
 you  want  to  put  them  in  areas  similar  to 
 this  where  they're  getting  a  little  bit 
 overhead  protection.  Whether  it's 
 protection  from  the  house  or  protection 
 from  fronds  like  this  bottle  palm,  you 
 see  how  tucked  up  I  have  them  underneath 
 these  big  fronds  of  these  bottle  palms. 
 They're  offering  them  quite  a  bit  of 
 shade  and  filtered  light  under  here.  And 
 as  this  tree  matures,  it's  going  to  do 
 that  even  more.  So,  they  do  their  very 
 best  when  they're  not  in  full  sun.  Full 
 sun  will  bleach  them  out  and  put  them 
 under  stress.  So  filtered  light,  morning 
 sun,  midday  sun,  but  once  we  get  past 
 early  afternoon,  that  late  afternoon  sun 
 can  really,  really  do  harm  to  a  big  leaf 
 croen.  To  the  backside,  I  needed 
 something  really  tough  that  can  handle 
 the  heat  of  the  day.  So,  we've  got  the 
 laopy  as  a  backdrop.  I  wanted  them  to  be 
 able  to  bounce  off  the  heat  from  this 
 paper  deck  and  the  rock,  as  well  as  kind 
 of  give  us  a  real  clean,  defined  border. 
 And  I  I  want  that  border  to  comes  to 
 have  like  a  little  grassy  pad  to  the 
 back.  And  they're  going  to  grow  in  and 
 do  that.  so  nicely  and  be  so  so 
 contained.  And  there's  something  about 
 laria  mixed  with  croins  that  I  love  that 
 contrast  and  look.  You  guys  know  how  I 
 feel  about  foxtail  ferns  and  rock.  Every 
 time  I  have  rock  or  a  little  bit  of 
 boulders,  I'll  pop  in  just  a  handful  of 
 foxtail  ferns.  Now,  you  can  see  we  do 
 not  have  a  huge  amount  of  plant  material 
 collected  in  this  grouping.  Three 
 foxtail  ferns  is  what  we  have  on  either 
 side  of  our  focal  point.  So,  in  a 
 triangle  formation,  I  think  they  work 
 the  best  that  way.  I  have  them  framed 
 around  a  boulder  on  both  sides.  So  that 
 way  as  these  guys  grow  up  with  that  cool 
 texture  that  they  offer,  they  highlight 
 this  boulder  as  like  a  little  bit  of  a 
 frame.  Now  you  can  do  this  with  an 
 inexpensive  small  boulder  just  like  you 
 have  here.  I  know  we  see  landscapes  with 
 giant  big  cap  rocks  and  those  are 
 awesome,  but  they're  also  hundreds  and 
 hundreds  of  dollars  for  those  rocks.  So 
 having  a  little  touch  of  a  a  basketball 
 size,  something  just,  you  know,  tad  bit 
 bigger  than  a  football  size  here.  You 
 tell  we're  a  sports  family  just  to  give 
 you  a  change  in  element.  So,  we  have  the 
 stone,  the  white  Alabama  river  rock 
 here.  And  then  we  have  some  field  stone, 
 some  Tennessee  field  stone  that  we've 
 put  in  here  in  a  small  size.  And  that 
 just  adds  a  little  bit  of  interest,  just 
 one  more  element  to  the  garden.  The 
 stone  does  a  nice  job  of  highlighting 
 against  the  grass  area.  And  I  think  that 
 this  since  it's  a  small  bed,  it's  an 
 ideal  thing  to  do.  And  anytime  that  you 
 have  a  bed  that's  sandwiched  between  two 
 hardscape  areas  and  you  don't  want  mulch 
 to  run  off  into  those  areas,  having 
 stone,  it  just  does  such  a  great  job  of 
 keeping  it  just  tidy  and  neat  and  not 
 having  to  worry  about  any  kind  of 
 runoff.  So,  this  is  the  Imperialis 
 burmilad.  Yes,  very  nice.  I  love  love 
 love  this  plant.  It  can  handle  full  sun 
 to  full  shade  pretty  much.  It  does  look 
 different  in  both  of  those  environments. 
 from  full  sun,  it  can  be  a  little  pale 
 or  a  little  greener.  When  it's  in 
 partial  light,  like  filtered  light,  it 
 will  have  more  of  a  burgundy  tone  to  it. 
 Now,  this  one  here  was  grown  more  in  the 
 full  sun,  so  it's  going  to  adapt  to  its 
 location.  It  might  have  more  of  a  purple 
 tinge  to  it  as  it  matures.  So,  you'll 
 get  to  see  that  change  according  to  the 
 location.  And  then,  as  this  tree 
 matures,  it'll  change  again  because  this 
 canopy  will  be  up  over  it.  So,  but 
 regardless,  that's  why  I  picked  a  plant 
 that  can  handle  both  conditions  because 
 we're  going  to  have  both  conditions  in 
 this  particular  spot  from  now  to,  you 
 know,  10  years  from  now.  It'll  widen  out 
 to  about  3  and  1/2  ft  and  kind  of  give 
 us  a  spherical  kind  of  roundness  to  this 
 top.  So,  it  is  not  one  of  those 
 vermilads  that  will  throw  a  limb  this 
 way  or  throw  a  a  leaf  that  way  or  throw 
 pups  every  which  way.  This  one  is  a 
 solitary  plant  until  it  dies.  is  it  will 
 offer  a  pup  when  it  dies,  which  is  I 
 mean  pretty  ideal  as  bmilads  go,  but  it 
 will  not  produce  tons  and  tons  of  pups. 
 So,  it  is  a  very  lowmaintenance  plant. 
 Only  trim  it  as  needed.  I  trim  mine  once 
 twice  a  year.  If  you  get  too  much 
 collection  of  water  as  it  holds  water  in 
 this  area,  you  can  flush  it  out  with  a 
 hose.  So,  you  bring  your  hose  out  here 
 and  just  kind  of  flush  it  out  in  the 
 middle  of  the  cups  and  that'll  wash  any 
 of  that  old  water  away  because  that  is 
 where  it  stores  its  water  for  its  plant. 
 Now,  this  particular  burmilad,  unlike 
 many  others,  can  handle  more  water  than 
 others.  So  it  can  be  absolutely  be 
 incorporated  into  a  tropical  landscape 
 without  any  kind  of  issues.  So  I  love 
 love love  using  this  plant  for  that 
 reason.  This  versatility,  shade  versus 
 sun,  handling  more  water,  and  just  easy 
 low  care  overall  trimming  as  needed. 
 That's  why  we've  made  this  to  focal 
 point.  And  I  think  it  turned  out 
 beautifully  as  it  is.  So  we  made  it  the 
 centerpiece.  Flanked  it  with  some 
 foxtail  ferns  on  the  side.  A  little 
 touch  of  pentas  here  on  the  corner  to 
 pop  in  some  color  and  then  highlighted 
 the  front  area  with  some  golden  dew. 
 These  are  the  dwarf  variety  of  the  red 
 pentas.  What's  great  about  those  is  that 
 you  can  keep  them  at  2  foot.  So  they 
 will  continue  to  grow,  but  every  other 
 month  just  do  a  nice  cut  back  on  these 
 guys.  So  you  just  trim  them  about  every 
 other  month  and  they  flush  out  and  chunk 
 out  with  new  growth.  Even  if  they're  in 
 full  bloom,  do  not  be  afraid  to  trim 
 them  back.  Really  kind  of  staying  nice 
 and  chunky  and  blooming,  trimming  after 
 trimming  after  trimming.  So,  you  do  have 
 to  do  a  little  work  to  these  guys,  but 
 it's  a  beautiful  carpet  flower  of  two 
 foot.  I  think  they're  definitely  worth 
 having.  And  you  can  see  how  this  little 
 bed  was  done  with  very  few  plants,  but  a 
 lot  of  impact.  Um,  we  used  the  aluminum 
 alloy  edging  to  edge  and  keep  the  rocks 
 separated  from  the  sod  here.  And  it's 
 just  kind  of  a  nice  crisp,  clean  look 
 all  the  way  around.  This  little  bed  is 
 so  small  that  it  only  needed  two 
 irrigation  heads.  These  are  typical 
 sprinkler  irrigation  heads.  One  sprays 
 out  this  way  covering  this  bed  and  this 
 tree  and  then  the  other  one  on  the  far 
 corner.  They  overlap  each  other.  This  is 
 going  to  need  to  be  irrigated  about 
 three  to  four  times  a  week  and  it's 
 ideal  for  that.  So  now  for  the  second 
 section  and  last  section  of  this  small 
 front  yard  garden.  Took  away  what  was 
 currently  here,  cleared  out  this  bed  and 
 incorporated  a  triple  foxtail  palm 
 that's  really  going  to  pair  beautifully 
 with  the  two  foxtail  palms  in  the  front. 
 all  this  clearance  so  that  way  it  didn't 
 block  any  light  from  the  window  coming 
 in  and  it  just  really  gives  kind  of a 
 crown  effect  to  the  top  of  the  roof 
 line.  Now,  the  reason  why  I  chose  to  put 
 something  so  heavy  on  this  side  is 
 because  over  on  this  side,  we  have  the 
 driveway,  we  have  the  garage,  we  have 
 the  doorway.  So,  having  some  heavier 
 impact,  having  some  more  interest  on 
 this  side  was  really  important  for 
 balance.  So,  that's  kind  of  what  I'm 
 always  looking  at  when  I'm  creating  a 
 space  or  creating  a  design.  And  so  this 
 triple  foxtail,  I  think,  is  anchoring 
 this  space  beautifully.  And  it's  still 
 very,  very  new.  Once  it  really  matures 
 and  opens  up,  it's  going  to  be  even  more 
 gorgeous.  I  believe  it  was  14t  at 
 planting,  so  that's  from  the  top  of  the 
 the  ground  all  the  way  up  to  the  tallest 
 frond.  And  it  has  a  good  7t  of  clear 
 trunk  at  the  bottom.  We  like  to  plant 
 about  5  to  six  foot  off  of  the  house 
 line.  So  even  when  it's  up  and  over  the 
 house  line,  we  like  to  have  a  little  bit 
 of  girth.  This  tree  will  grow  slowly  to 
 about  a  foot  to  two  foot  per  year.  This 
 is  a  very  claybank  soil,  so  it's  going 
 to  grow  into  that  slow  range.  When 
 you're  in  sandy  soil,  it's  going  to  grow 
 much  faster.  On  either  side  on  these 
 blank  walls  that  we  have,  we  chose  a 
 clumping  rafus  palm.  Now,  these  are 
 awesome,  awesome  trees  to  light  at 
 night.  I  love  this  leaf.  These  are  great 
 for  planters  or  indoor  voses.  Just  such 
 a  cool  cool  tree  and  they  really  have 
 that  dynamic  kind  of  hand  frrawn  to 
 them.  I  love  putting  them  either  on 
 blank  walls  or  if  there's  a  blank  spot 
 right  behind  an  opening  of  this  tree,  I 
 love  to  put  them  in  the  center  of  that 
 area  as  well  because  they  really  do 
 offer  a  big  ump  as  a  backdrop.  They  do 
 grow  slowly  and  they  do  grow  nice  and 
 compact.  The  negative  to  these  guys  is 
 they  will  travel,  so  they'll  throw  a 
 little  chute  to  the  left  and  to  the 
 right  of  itself.  So,  you  want  to  make 
 sure  that  you  pull  that  out.  So,  when 
 you  do  your  trimming,  you  just  take  any 
 of  them  out  that  you  don't  want. 
 However,  if  you  guys  get  nervous  about 
 those  running  shoots,  then  absolutely  do 
 not  sleep  on  these  guys.  is  go  ahead  and 
 put  them  in  a  planter.  Put  them  in  a  pot 
 and  put  them  into  the  garden.  They  work 
 so  so  well  and  can  live  in  a  pot  for 
 years  and  years  and  years.  That's  how  I 
 have  mine  in  my  garden.  These  are  about 
 4t  tall  and  these  were  in  a  25gallon 
 size.  Um  I  usually  get  them  in  a  15  or 
 25  gallon  just  depending  on  what  you 
 know  budgets  allow.  I  love  the  25gallon 
 size  because  they've  clustered  nice  and 
 tight  in  the  bottom  and  they've  rounded 
 out.  15  gallon  is  a  little  bit  thinner 
 and  seven  gallon  and  three  gallon  is 
 just  a  little  bit  too  hard  and  it  takes 
 too  long  for  them  to  really  clump. 
 They'll  want  to  spread  before  they 
 really  clump.  So  I  would  stick  with 
 trying  to  get  a  15  gallon  or  25gallon 
 size  right  off  the  bat.  Just  spend  the 
 extra  money  to  do  that  on  these 
 particular  plants.  It's  worth  it.  I 
 commonly  will  put  blueberry  trees  into  a 
 spot  like  this  and  they  kind  of  gives 
 you  a  nice  kind  of  cone  like  type  of 
 shape  and  really  does  a  nice  bit  of 
 flanking  on  either  side  of  a  focal 
 point.  And  then  if  you're  in  a  shady 
 spot  and  you  do  want  to  go  back  with 
 palms,  cat  palms  are  another  one.  Cat 
 palms  will  stop  growing  around  that  9  to 
 10  ft  height.  So  they're  going  to  be 
 perfect  going  up  a  wall  and  kind  of 
 giving  you  that  feathery  kind  of 
 softness  on  either  side  of  the  wall, 
 really  softening  those  corners.  So 
 because  this  tree  has  such  long  legs, 
 you  got  to  love  her.  She's  absolutely 
 stunning  in  this  spot,  but  she  kind  of 
 needs  a  little bit  of  backing  so  you 
 just  don't  miss  these  cool  trunk  lines 
 that  these  guys  have.  So  what  I  usually 
 like  to  do  is  have  something  feathery  or 
 thick  behind  her.  So,  I  use  sloppy 
 painters.  You  guys  know  how  I  love  about 
 sloppy  painters.  These  are  15  gallon 
 sloppy  painters  that  we  brought  in.  They 
 are  gorgeous  at  that  size.  If  you  can 
 get  them  in  seven  or  15  gallon  size,  do 
 it  you  guys.  It's  well  worth  the  extra 
 money  because  of  the  weight  on  their 
 growth  habits.  When  they're  planted  as  a 
 seven  gallon,  they're  chunkier  and 
 fuller  and  you  don't  have  to  kind  of 
 create  that  on  your  own.  Planting  a 
 bunch  of  little  plants  together.  These 
 are  15  gallon.  They're  nice  and  chunky. 
 They're  really  going  to  round  out  and 
 fill  out  this  whole  space.  She's  going 
 to  let  them  get  to  about  halfway  up  the 
 window  line.  So  from  the  road,  you'll 
 see  this  bright  green  and  yellow  kind  of 
 coloring.  It's  beautiful  contrast 
 against  the  house  and  the  rafus  palm. 
 And  I  really  like  to  have  height  on  the 
 sides  it  to  start  dropping  down  as  we 
 get  to  the  bottom  tiers.  And  then  of 
 course  do  a  secondary  popup  in  the 
 middle  so  we  have  interest.  So  the 
 plants  that  I  chose  for  that  are  the 
 burl  marks.  I  wanted  a  little  bit  of  a 
 green  contrast  between  the  sloppy 
 painters  and  the  mango  croins  there.  So 
 that  dark  green  is  going  to  be  gorgeous 
 as  those  fill  out.  Now  most  of  you  guys 
 know  those  will  get  three  foot  and 
 really  chunk  out  and  connect  together. 
 So  it's  almost  like  it  creates  a  green 
 line  between  these  two.  It's  like  well 
 hold  up  not  too  much  color.  Let's  give 
 it a  green  screen  and  then  the  mango 
 croins  will  take  over  from  there.  So 
 we'll  have  a  nice  divided  line.  I  wanted 
 this  landscaping  to  look  good  from  both 
 sides  because  you're  actually  walking  up 
 the  walkway  here.  So  I  wanted  to  look 
 good  from  the  road  and  coming  from 
 inside  and  outside  of  the  doorway  area. 
 So  we  have  a  nice  dual  view  from  both 
 sides.  We  continued  low  planting  with 
 the  dwarf  exoras.  It's  just  a  little 
 swoop  of  dwarf  exoras.  You  can  see  I  use 
 something  real  compact,  real  controlled 
 to  kind  of  hide  away  the  crazy.  Nice  big 
 filerendrian  leaves  here  that  are  going 
 to  fold  over  and  they're  a  little  bit 
 more  controlled,  but  they're  still 
 filidendrian  leaves.  They're  still  going 
 to  kind  of  do  their  thing  and  kind  of  be 
 a  soft  planting.  And  then  the  mango 
 croins  will  get  a  little  bushy  and 
 crazy.  So  these  dwarf  exoras  and  this 
 gold  mound  down  below  do  a  nice  job  of 
 having  two  tiers  of  keeping  it 
 controlled  and  very  clean  lines.  So  you 
 guys  know  my  style  is  crazy  in  the  back 
 paired  back  in  the  front.  And  that's 
 exactly  what  this  will  do.  It'll  make  it 
 feel  like  it's  a  purposeful  landscape. 
 So  anytime  you're  like,  did  I  get  a 
 little  bit  too  crazy  with  that 
 landscaping?  Now  it's  time  to  divide  it 
 and  create  something  really  fine-tuned. 
 Dwarf  exoras  are  my  go-to  for  that.  So 
 are  gold  mound,  dwarf  kucia,  variegated 
 arbicola.  Those  are  things  that  kind  of 
 you  can  really  keep  and  draw  with,  kind 
 of  curve  with.  So  anything  Carissa 
 boxwood  blew  my  mind.  That's  what  you 
 want  to  use.  So  and  then  of  course  we 
 just  tapered  it  off  and  finished  it  to 
 the  corner.  This  is  not  the  same  shape 
 or  size  as  the  bed  adjacent  to  it.  But 
 trying  to  find  some  balance  and  kind  of 
 make  them  two  mirror  each  other  is 
 always  an  important  thing.  You  don't 
 want  to  have  one  style  way  over  there, 
 another  bed  right  across  from  it,  a 
 completely  different  style.  Like  that 
 was  almost  like  an  afterthought.  Do 
 little  pop  outs  of  stone  in  this  bed  to 
 tie  these  two  areas  together.  Have  some 
 of  that  Tennessee  field  stone  framing 
 some  of  the  key  features  in  this  garden 
 by  having  them  over  there.  So  that  way 
 it  feels  like  gosh,  this  is  a  bed  that's 
 almost  just  like  it's  interrupted  by  the 
 walkway.  Like  this  is  one  continuous 
 space.  Then  the  walkway  comes  through 
 the  middle  of  it  and  interrupts  that 
 space,  but  then  it  continues  right  on  to 
 the  next  planter.  That  makes  one  little 
 space  look  bigger  by  having  a 
 continuation.  So  keep  those  long  arching 
 beds  as  long  and  as  big  as  you  can 
 possibly  make  them.  And  then  here  we  had 
 the  budget  to  do  a  nice  little  final 
 planting  with  this  yucka  restrada.  I 
 love  this  plant.  It  is  like  a  little 
 firework  in  the  garden.  It  is  just  so 
 stunning  with  its  bright  blue  colors.  It 
 has  gorgeous,  gorgeous  leaves  to  it. 
 It's  just  a  such  a  beautiful  look.  When 
 this  guy  gets  big,  they  get  very,  very 
 expensive  as  they  grow  taller.  It  does 
 have  a  nice  trunk  to  it  and  then  it  does 
 have  a  nice  big  round  head.  It'll  be  a 
 stunner  as  a  front  focal  point.  It'll  be 
 like  a  sculpture  in  the  garden.  Brought 
 in  at  15gallon  size.  It's  a  great  size. 
 Still  affordable.  They  are  pricey  little 
 accents,  but  gosh,  they  are  so  worth  it. 
 They  live  a  long  time  and  they  grow 
 super  slow.  So,  if  you're  going  to  put 
 them  in  a  pot  on  a  pool  deck,  they  don't 
 drop  a  bunch  of  stuff.  It's  almost  like 
 a  look  at  me  plant.  That  kind  of  fan 
 look  to  them.  So,  having  three  of  those 
 on  your  back  pool  deck,  I  think  is 
 ideal.  And  then  dappled  in  some  ground 
 cover.  So  these  are  little  onegon  boom 
 my  minds  that  are  going  to  kind  of  fill 
 in  this  spot.  To  the  back  we  have  some 
 gold  mound  holding  back  the  crazy  of 
 those  burl  marks  and  mango  croins  there. 
 So  these  guys  are  going  to  be  6'  tall. 
 Those  guys  are  going  to  be  around  four 
 or  fivet  tall.  These  drop  down  to  3t 
 tall,  3ft  tall,  2  foot  to  the  bottom.  A 
 focal  point  coming  out  of  the  middle  and 
 about  a  foot  and  a  half  to  two  foot  at 
 the  bottom  with  the  blew  my  mind.  So  you 
 can  really  see  that  layering  effect 
 happen.  Look  at  all  that  darkness  on 
 either  side.  Doesn't  it  call  for  a  pop 
 of  interest  with  these  leaves?  I  mean,  I 
 just  love  this  leaf  color.  It's  so 
 stunning.  A  lot  of  people  let  them  get 
 giant  and  tall  and  kind  of  go  crazy.  You 
 can  keep  them  this  size  forever.  You  can 
 keep  them  3T  4T  tall  forever  by  just 
 trimming  whatever  you  do  not  want.  Just 
 this  one  trunk  that  you  would  trim  off 
 and  it'll  start  to  fill  out.  So,  they're 
 looking  for  neighboring  plants  to 
 connect  to.  These  will  group  as  one 
 solid  bush  and  become  a  clustering  of 
 that  bright  color.  And  when  that 
 happens,  they're  just  golden.  They're 
 just  a  stunner  in  the  garden.  If  you  can 
 have  that  much  bright  and  dark,  bright 
 and  dark  in  a  garden,  doesn't  matter  how 
 small  it  is,  it  just  pops.  But  that  will 
 be  all  for  today's  video.  Thank  you  so 
 much  for  joining  us.  We  put  a  video  on 
 the  screen  for  last  week's  garden  tour. 
 Thank  you  guys  so  much.  See  you 
 tomorrow.  Take  care.

---

 Well,  hello  gardeners.  Welcome  back.  We 
 are  in  my  backyard  today,  Vero  Beach, 
 Florida,  zone  10A.  And  today  is  all 
 about  cutting  flowers.  Today  is  all 
 about  bringing  the  outdoors  inside.  So, 
 I  know  up  north  a  lot  of  my  clients  have 
 mentioned  to  me  how  they've  made 
 beautiful  cutting  gardens  and  they  have 
 all  of  those  florals.  They  bring  them 
 inside  and  they  have  them  for  weeks  on 
 end  and  they  don't  have  to  buy  any 
 bouquets  from  the  flower  shops.  However, 
 here  in  Florida,  that  seems  to  be  a 
 mystery  to  us.  I've  not  been  able  to 
 really  recreate  that  kind  of  feeling  in 
 my  own  garden.  However,  what  I  do  do  is 
 there  are  so  many  different  variations 
 of  color,  beautiful  variegated  plants 
 that  I  absolutely  do  that  constantly.  I 
 have  so  much  greenery  inside  that  comes 
 from  the  outside  and  I  I  don't  miss  a 
 time  of  trimming.  And  as  you  guys  can 
 see,  we've  recently  done  a  big  heavy 
 trim  back.  So,  I  thought  today's  video 
 would  be  an  ideal  time  to  take  those 
 plants,  those  clippings  that  we  did  and 
 show  you  guys  what  we  brought  inside  to 
 create  beautiful  little  cutting  voses, 
 things  that  last  weeks  and  months  in  my 
 house.  I  pretty  much  just  take  from  the 
 outside  and  bring  it  in.  And  anytime  I 
 have  a  gathering  or  friends  come  over 
 for  the  evening,  I  will  come  out  and 
 clip  and  nip  and  do  just  a  little  bit  of 
 a  light  trimming  and  put  them  in  voses 
 inside  and  put  them  in  the  bathrooms, 
 the  guest  bathrooms,  put  them,  you  know, 
 just  everywhere  that  I  feel  like  I  want 
 a  touch  of  just  a  little  bit  of  softness 
 to  kind  of  share  with  my  company  that 
 comes  here.  So,  I  thought  today  I  would 
 do  a  video  on  my  favorite  plants  to  cut 
 things  that  that  last  a  while  because  I 
 am  a  busy  lady.  So,  I  really  need  it  to 
 be  a  kind  of  a  one  and  done  trim,  put  it 
 inside,  maybe  every  couple  weeks  just 
 change  the  water  out,  but  it  does  super 
 super  well  longterm.  And  I  thought  that 
 I  would  share  those  particular  plants 
 and  trees  as  well  as  maybe  some  that 
 I've  done  in  the  past  that  were 
 nightmares,  maybe  just  leafed  all  over 
 the  counter  and  was  just  not  a  thing  to 
 do.  So,  let's  get  started  with  my  first 
 and  one  of  my  favorites.  So,  you've  seen 
 my  antilooines,  you've  seen  my  red 
 sisters,  you've  seen  my  exotic.  But  I 
 have  a  few  different  varieties  of  portal 
 lines  mainly  because  I  love  that 
 spotlight  of  color  in  a  in  a  relatively 
 dark  space.  They  really  offer  that  kind 
 of  pop  of  color.  But  another  thing  that 
 I  love  about  them  is  they  become  one  of 
 my  focal  points  on  the  inside  of  my 
 house.  They  sit  on  my  little  table  that 
 my  husband  and  I  eat  at  usually  late  in 
 the  evenings.  It's  near  the  TV.  It's 
 kind  of  it's  not  our  dining  room  area, 
 but  it's  kind  of  our  little  seating 
 section  that  we'll  have  we'll  have 
 dinner  at.  and  it's  the  plant  that  I 
 love  to  put  there  because  it's  very 
 vertical,  doesn't  take  up  much  space, 
 and  it  offers  a  pop  of  color.  This  is  my 
 Marie  variety,  and  I  am  a  big  fan  of 
 this  plant.  I  know  I  don't  use  it  very 
 often  in  other  landscapes  because 
 honestly,  it  is  a  hybrid  variety  that's 
 been  out  for  five  or  six  years,  but  I've 
 had  a  lovehate  relationship  with  it. 
 I've  had  some  great  success  with  it,  and 
 I've  had  some  areas  that  where  it  just 
 didn't  do  well.  So,  I'm  still  learning  a 
 little  bit  more  about  it.  However,  this 
 particular  grouping  has  always  done  well 
 protected  from  the  wind  and  with  this 
 wall,  but  it  is  a  gorgeous  variation  in 
 color.  I'll  usually  mix  this  clipping 
 with  an  exotica  plant,  another 
 quarterline  variety,  and  that  bright  and 
 dark  tones  are  just  absolutely  stunning. 
 Now,  if  you  guys  have  watched  my 
 quarterline  video,  you  know  that  I  trim 
 these  guys,  the  tallest  one,  twice  a 
 year,  and  I  will  pretty  much  just  take 
 right  from  the  trunk  diagonally  cut 
 and  then  take  this  guy  and  put  him  right 
 into  a  large  vase.  So,  the  best  thing 
 that  you're  going  to  want  to  do  is 
 you're  going  to  want  to  really  just  take 
 off  these  lower  leaves,  giving  you  a 
 little  bit  of  a  stem  work.  Now,  this 
 plant  can  go  right  into  the  ground  right 
 next  to  the  current  plant  here.  Or  it 
 can  go  into  a  vase.  And  I  put  it  into  a 
 vase  because,  you  know,  it's  the 
 weekend.  I  want  something  fun.  And  I'll 
 stick  it  right  into  that  center  of  the 
 vase.  Maybe  put  a  little  bit  of  Song  of 
 India  around  it  to  brighten  this  color 
 up  or  another  type  of  quarterline  around 
 there.  And  then  once  it  roots  in  next 
 month  or  two,  I'll  take  it  out  and  I'll 
 put  it  right  into  the  ground  somewhere 
 else.  And  voila,  I  have  a  brand  new 
 plant.  But  I  got  to  enjoy  it  inside  for 
 such  a  long  period  of  time.  All right, 
 you  guys.  So,  my  next  favorite  plant  to 
 use  as  cutings  would  be  the  graphus 
 palm,  aka  lady  palm.  I  love  the  texture. 
 Now,  I  know  we  don't  have  much  color 
 here,  but  I  just  absolutely  love  what 
 this  looks  like.  I  have  a  large 
 wide-mouth  vase  that  I  use  this 
 particular  plant  with,  and  I  just  think 
 it  looks  so  good.  I  put  it  right  on  my 
 my  little  tables  in  my  living  room.  It's 
 not  super  large,  super  obstructive,  but 
 it's  the  perfect  kind  of  I  don't know, 
 little  architectural  sculpture  in  that 
 space.  So,  I  constantly  do  that.  These 
 little  leaves  will  keep  for  I've  had 
 them  in  there  for  2  months.  You  know, 
 change  the  water  out  every  couple  weeks, 
 of  course,  but  I've  had  them  in  there 
 for  a  couple  months  and  they  just  do 
 beautifully.  You  kind  of  want  to  add  a 
 little  bit  of  color,  a  little  punch  to 
 them.  Incorporate  some  really  gorgeous 
 quarter  lines  or  you  can  incorporate 
 some  small  little  clusters  of  icon 
 croins  or  magnificent  croins  or  mango 
 croins.  I  I  kind  of  like  that 
 combination  with  this  type  of  leaf 
 texture.  It  does  so  so  well.  I  just  kind 
 of  farm  this  little  tree  right  here  just 
 for  the  leaves.  So,  I'll  pick  out  some 
 of  my  favorite  leaves  to  work  with.  And 
 I  don't  cut  the  whole  stem.  I  just  cut 
 the  leaves  themselves  because  it's  a 
 rather  small  vase  and  it's  in  my  TV 
 room.  So,  I  don't  want  it  to  take  up  too 
 much  space.  But  what  a  cool  leaf 
 pattern.  They  create  new  leaves  and  new 
 growth  so  much  that  I  don't  have  to  be 
 super  careful  with  taking  too  much  from 
 it  because  they're  such  a  prolific 
 grower.  But  I  love  these.  Now,  to  me, 
 this  screams  Florida  tropical.  Um, 
 obviously,  like  I  said,  you  can 
 incorporate  some  beautiful  flowers  if 
 you  want  to  mix  in  with  these,  but  I 
 just  love  this  kind  of  paddled  wide 
 fingered  leaf  here.  They  look  so  so 
 great  and  last  so  very  long  in  a  vase. 
 All  right,  you  guys.  The  next  plant  that 
 I  love  to  harvest  for  cutings,  I  would 
 say  would  be  the  croins.  And  I  love  all 
 varieties.  The  ones  that  do  the  best  are 
 the  ones  that  have  long  hardwood  stems 
 to  them.  So  once  your  croins  get  some 
 size  to  them,  it's  ideal  to  use  for 
 cutings.  They  last  much  much  longer. 
 When  they're  still  young  and  a  little 
 bit  tender,  that  can  be  a  little  bit 
 tricky.  So  let  make  sure  that  they  are 
 more  of  the  your  older  variety.  So  you 
 kind  of  see  how  I've  got  one  stem 
 sticking  out  here.  I  kind  of  don't  need 
 that.  So,  I'm  going  to  go  ahead  and  clip 
 this  guy  for  my  indoor  vase.  You  just 
 try  to  clip  between  the  nodes.  Take  off 
 some  of  that  lower  stemming. 
 And  you  guys  ignore  my  clippers.  I  am  so 
 embarrassed.  I  threw  away  my  felos  last 
 weekend  when  I  was  doing  some  trimming 
 in  the  garden.  I'm  just  so  heartbroken 
 over  it.  So,  you  just  kind  of  take  this 
 and  incorporate  this  and  any  little 
 clippings  that  you've  got.  Now,  I  have 
 got  iced  croins  are  my  favorite. 
 magnificent  croins  work  as  well,  but  ic 
 te  croins.  I  love  this  coloration  here 
 with  quarter  lines.  I  just  think  it  does 
 a  fantastic  job.  My  goal  would  be  to 
 find  the  tallest  one  in  the  group  though 
 because  you  always  want  kind  of  a 
 layered  planting.  You  don't  want  to 
 sacrifice  your  plant  grouping  just  to 
 make  clippings.  You  kind  of  see  how 
 we've  got  some  height  here  and  then 
 we've  got  some  lower  stems  here.  So,  if 
 we  could  take  this  tall  one  with  old 
 wood  and  growth  on  it  and  just  kind  of 
 clip  it  down  here.  You're  going  to  get 
 now  new  growth  all  over  the  top  of  this 
 plant.  And  then  now  this  plant  is  voila 
 a  beautiful  specimen  for  a  nice  little 
 vase  either  on  its  own  or  with  a 
 collection  of  some  beautiful  plants. 
 This  will  give  you  several  weeks  in  the 
 garden.  Now  propagating  these  guys,  I've 
 not  had  a  lot  of  luck,  so  I  can't  say 
 that's  ideal  for  that,  but  they 
 definitely  give  you  a  lot  of  beautiful 
 color  and  a  small  dark  space  if  you  have 
 it  in  your  house.  It's  total  game 
 changer  when  it  comes  to  not  having  to 
 spend  any  money  on  a  bouquet.  Add  these 
 to  maybe  some  ferns  and  voila,  you've 
 got  a  nice  little  display.  Here's 
 another  example  of  an  unwanted  stem.  So, 
 see  how  this  is  crowding  my  mammy 
 croins.  And  I  love  the  leaf  color  on 
 this  guy.  This  is  a  banana  leaf  croin. 
 It  was  a  test  trial  croin  that  has  done 
 super  well.  Takes  a  good  year  to  get 
 going,  but  once  it  gets  going,  she's  a 
 stunner.  But  I  don't  like  how  she's 
 encroaching  on  my  croten.  So,  I'm  going 
 to  go  ahead  and  take  that  limb  off. 
 And  what  a  gorgeous  display  she's  going 
 to  give  me  with  my  other  plants  in  my 
 collection. 
 You  guys,  I  feel  like  I'm  shopping.  That 
 is  the  best  part  about  this  whole  thing 
 is  you  come  outside,  you  enjoy  your 
 garden,  you  see  little  things,  and 
 you're  like,  you  know what?  I  could  kind 
 of  use  you  bring  you  inside  indoors  and 
 really  kind  of  benefit  from  seeing  you 
 all  through  the  house.  And  if  anything 
 brings  you  outside  more,  it's  just 
 seeing  the  beautiful  color  of  that 
 foliage  inside  that  is  just  kind  of  a 
 no-brainer.  So,  I  know  most  Florida 
 homes  have  one,  two,  or  20  of  these  kind 
 of  trees.  It's  the  palm.  It  is  your 
 pretty  common  overall  buffer  planting 
 tree.  I  love  having  them  in  my  garden. 
 They  do  super  super  well  in  filtered 
 light,  full  shade  to  early  midday  sun. 
 Once  they  get  past  that,  they  can  have 
 that  more  of  that  golden  kind  of  color, 
 more  of  the  yellow  tone  color.  So,  to 
 me,  this  is  the  ideal  place  to  pick 
 where  I  have  a  little  bit  more  shade  and 
 protection.  My  palms  are  gorgeous  in 
 green.  So,  I  love  coming  over  here.  You 
 kind  of  see  how  I  have  an  overhang  on 
 top  of  my  current  little  planting  bed 
 that  I  have  here.  So,  I  don't 
 necessarily  need  these  guys.  So,  I  use 
 them  again  indoors  and  they're  super 
 easy  because  they're  such  a  prolific 
 grower.  I  don't  have  to  worry  about 
 where  I  trim  because  they  will  offer  me 
 new  fronds  in  no  time.  Just  look  at  what 
 a  beautiful  display  this  is.  If  you  got 
 a  large  vase  in  your  house,  it  just  adds 
 a  little  bit  of  grace.  And  it  doesn't 
 need  to  be  20  of  them.  I've  done  a 
 display  with  just  three  of  these  guys, 
 some  croins  in  the  middle,  maybe  a 
 quarterline  as  a  centerpiece.  And  oh  my 
 goodness,  it  is  just  such  a  stunner.  And 
 what's  great  about  these,  if  you've  got 
 like  a  potted  plant  where  you've  not  had 
 a  bunch  of  luck  with  that  potted  plant, 
 if  you  do  what  I  do,  when  you  put  plants 
 in  a  pot,  it's  not  irrigated,  they  tend 
 to  die  a  slow  death.  I  know  I  shouldn't 
 say  that,  but  that's  what  happens  to  my 
 potted  plants.  I've  got  two  voses  inside 
 my  kitchen  area,  and  I  love 
 incorporating  these  in  there.  They're 
 just  so  graceful,  so  beautiful,  and 
 frame  my  dining  room  window.  So,  spoils. 
 Now,  that's  the  way  I  like  to  shop. 
 All  right,  you  guys.  Welcome  inside.  We 
 are  in  my  home  and  I  think  it's  the 
 first  time  that  we've  been  in  here.  So, 
 I'm  so  grateful  to  share  it  with  you 
 guys.  I  thought  we  would  bring  the 
 bouncy  to  the  kitchen  table  kind  of  just 
 like  how  I  do.  I  wouldn't  say  I  do  it 
 every  single  weekend,  but  I  do  it  many, 
 many  weekends.  And  it's  like  the  perfect 
 Saturday  thing  to  do.  I  love  walking 
 around  my  garden  early  in  the  morning 
 with  my  cup  of  coffee,  just  kind  of 
 seeing  who's  doing  what,  who's  acting 
 up,  who's  being  dramatic,  who  whatever. 
 And  then  that's  also  when  I  have  my 
 trimmer  is  usually  in  my  back  pocket  and 
 I  will  just  clip  kind  of  as  I  go.  I'll 
 clip  something  that's  looking  fabulous 
 or  maybe  something  that's  just  kind  of 
 in  the  way  of  something  else  that  I  can 
 utilize  inside.  So  today  I  kind  of  took 
 you  on  that  journey  with  me  and  picked 
 up  some  fun  things.  These  are  the  voses 
 that  I  normally  use  throughout  my  space 
 in  the  garden.  So  I  leave  them  empty  and 
 then  I  will  incorporate  my  favorite 
 plants  and  I  kind  of  each  vase  has  its 
 own  kind  of  plant  species  that  I  tend  to 
 work  with.  So,  as  you  can  see,  I  have 
 these  beautiful  voses  that  I  got  for 
 Bryce's  wedding.  I  have  two  that  I  kept 
 for  myself.  These  are  absolutely  just  a 
 fun  fun  vase  to  have  indoors.  I  use  my 
 palms.  You  guys  know  I  have  tons  of 
 palms.  So,  I  totally  love  to  use  these 
 in  this  particular  space.  These  palms 
 will  last  in  this  vase  for  2  months  and 
 they  will  do  fine.  Now,  I  don't  put 
 water  in  right  away.  I  cut  them.  I  let 
 them  sit  for  about  2  days,  harden  off  a 
 little  bit,  then  add  water.  I  know  that 
 seems  crazy  because  you  think,  gosh, 
 wouldn't  they  dry  out,  but  they  just 
 seem  to  hold  so  much  better  like  that. 
 So,  I  will  fill  half  of  this  with  water 
 and  then  about  every  two  to  3  weeks, 
 I'll  switch  out  this  water.  I  would  like 
 to  say  I'm  more  diligent  than  than  that, 
 but  I'm  I'm  really  not.  So,  um  my  small 
 voses  I  definitely  do  about  every  2 
 weeks  until  they're  ready  to  be  kind  of 
 popped  out.  And  you'll  know  that  they'll 
 start  to  kind  of  give  you  a  little bit 
 of  yellow  tone  and  they're  like, "Okay, 
 I'm  kind  of  done  visiting.  I'm  kind  of 
 over.  Put  me  out  of  my  misery."  And  then 
 I  move  on  to  do  more  clipping.  So,  the 
 very  first  thing  is  going  to  be  my  small 
 vase.  I  got  this  for  Mother's  Day,  God, 
 forever  ago.  And  it  is  just  such  a  fun 
 little  vase.  It's  absolutely  short,  big, 
 wide  mouth.  I  love  the  gold  trim.  Goes 
 perfectly  on  a  little  table  that  I  have 
 right  in  my  TV  room.  Now,  because  this 
 is  so  short,  you  want  to  make  sure  that 
 you  use  a  small  or  narrow  stem.  This  is 
 exactly  why  I  use  the  raphus  palm.  And 
 you  notice  I  didn't  cut  the  whole  trunk 
 on  the  rais  palm.  I  just  cut  the 
 individual  stems.  But  they  add  such  a 
 bit  of  architectural  detail  to  this 
 little  vase  here.  And  they're  not  tall, 
 so  they're  not  going  to  obstruct  the  TV 
 because  I  have  men  in  my  house  and  they 
 have  a  hard  time  seeing  through  fronds. 
 Go  figure.  But  they  do.  So  this  is  the 
 perfect  little  piece  for  me.  So  I  add  a 
 little  bit  of  water.  And  I  usually  don't 
 do  any  more  than  this.  Now  I  know  this 
 doesn't  offer  color,  but  I  do  think  it 
 offers  fun.  It  offers  texture.  I  set  it 
 right  on  one  of  my  design  books  and  it's 
 just  perfect  for  that.  Let  me  add  some 
 water  and  then  I'll  show  you  guys  where 
 it  goes.  And  voila,  we  are  done. 
 All right,  you  guys.  So,  what's  next  is 
 one  of  my  favorite  voses  throughout  my 
 whole  house.  I  usually  will  put 
 something  that's  really  wide  in  here. 
 So,  that's  kind  of  why  I  use  my 
 collection  of  croins  in  here.  Sometimes 
 I'll  put  some  ice  plants  kind  of 
 dripping  or  some  ferns  dripping  to  it.  I 
 love  ferns  and  a  vase.  The  only  thing  I 
 do  not  like  is  how  much  they  drop 
 leaves.  So  those  little  kind  of  pin 
 needle  leaves,  they  can  be  kind  of 
 crazy.  The  only  fern  that  I  tend  to 
 really  love  to  work  with  are  the  foxtail 
 ferns.  I  have  it  on  my  window  sill.  It's 
 been  there  for  almost  2  months.  They 
 will  get  a  little  dried,  so  when  you  go 
 to  change  out  the  water,  you  will  have 
 little  fern  needles  everywhere.  Easy  to 
 clean  up,  but  such  a  vertical  aspect  in 
 the  garden,  and  you've  got  to  trim  those 
 anyway.  So  I  just  take  the  trimmings  and 
 I  put  them  in  a  vase,  and  I  utilize  them 
 that  way.  So  I'll  start  with  the  whitest 
 one  first.  And  you  guys  probably  know 
 this  as  you  guys  work  with  your  plants. 
 But  you'll  see  kind  of  how  that's  big 
 and  broad  there.  And  then  I'll  kind  of 
 do  all  of  my  little  fluff.  So  these  are 
 nice  and  vertical.  Angle  this  one  out 
 just  to  balance  out  with  the  angle  that 
 we  have  here.  And  voila.  Add  a  little 
 filtered  water  to  that  guy.  And  you're 
 kind  of  good  to  go.  And  I  place  him  in 
 the  same  spot  all  the  time  in  the 
 kitchen  area.  So  this  is  my  little  tea 
 set.  I  just  pretty  much  put  them  in 
 here.  My  family  and  friends  will  know 
 this,  but  I  find  little  tea  or  coffee 
 pots.  I  know  this  is  off  topic,  but  I 
 find  them  all  the  time  at  like  Goodwill 
 or  little  thrift  stores  that,  you  know, 
 maybe  have  a  broken  little  lid  or 
 whatnot  and  they're  like  a  dollar.  So 
 many  cute  ones  that  I  found  that  you  can 
 put  little  little  plants  in  there  that 
 have  just  started  to  root.  Some  of  my 
 alicacas,  some  of  my  poo,  really  unique 
 things  that  you  can  put  in  here  and  then 
 give  as  a  gift  to  someone  visiting.  I 
 just  think  that  is  such  a  cool  thing  to 
 do.  So,  there  are  so  many  out  there.  I 
 literally  get  them  for  like  a  dollar,  $2 
 and  then  they  just  kind  of  make  little 
 little  treats.  A  lot  of  times  I'll  put 
 them  in  the  bathroom  with  a  little  plant 
 in  there  and  it's  it's  just  perfect.  I 
 don't  have  a  lot  of  small  voses  around 
 the  house.  So  I  usually  use  this  as  like 
 a  lower  tier  in  the  plant  grouping.  So 
 it  kind  of  goes  like  this  or  at  the 
 bottom  with  something  vertical  popping 
 out  of  it.  So  this  is  the  song  of  India. 
 I  use  it  for  everything.  I've  put  it  in 
 water,  put  it  on  my  wall.  It's  just  such 
 a  fabulous  plant  to  work  with.  You  take 
 off  these  lower  leaves.  You  don't  have 
 to  be  super  delicate  with  this  plant. 
 does  not  mind  it.  It  will  pop  out  roots. 
 And  you  guys,  I  don't  like  tons  of 
 frills.  I  don't  like  too  much  mess.  I'm 
 like,  I'm  not  going to  cut  all  these 
 little  individual  browns  that  are  on 
 there.  That  is  just  part  of  nature.  It 
 comes  in  just  that  way.  The  only  thing  I 
 will  check  it  for  is  if  we  have  any 
 pests  or  bugs  or  anything  along  those 
 lines.  It's  usually  as  good  as  a  rinse 
 and  you're  good  to  go.  I  just  think  that 
 what  a  great  display  that  makes  right 
 there.  So,  I  just  love  the  way  that 
 little  touch  of  dark  and  bright  looks  in 
 the  garden. 
 All  right,  you  guys.  So,  the  last  vase 
 that  I  have  is  this  big  boy.  So,  I  tend 
 to  use  the  Eureka  palm  frrons.  I  cut 
 them  way  down  so  they  have  just  a  little 
 bit  of  just  kind  of  a  lacy  look  to  them 
 because  I  just  don't  have  the  room, 
 unfortunately,  for  ones  like  this.  This 
 is  the  only  vertical  space  that  I  have 
 for  those  guys.  And  as  you  can  tell 
 there,  there's  not  a  lot  of  vertical 
 space  there  either.  Trim  these  guys 
 almost  in  half  just  before  you  get  to 
 the  bend  of  it.  And  then  just  take  off 
 some  of  these  lower  fronds.  We're  not 
 propagating  these  guys.  These  are  just 
 sitting  in  water.  So  you  don't  have  to 
 be  super  gentle  with  them.  They're 
 pretty  much  just  to  kind  of  give  us  a 
 little  bit  of  ump.  That  is  not  as  good 
 as  my  felos.  Now  this  does  right  here. 
 Now  you  can  put  this  right  into  the 
 ground  right  next  to  where  I  took  this 
 plant.  It  will  rroot  and  offer  you  a 
 whole  new  plant.  So  don't  toss  any  of 
 your  cutings  when  it  comes  to  your 
 quarter  lines  because  they  are  worth 
 their  weight  and  gold  as  offering  you 
 brand  new  plants.  Now  this  particular 
 planter  I  only  keep  this  in  this  planter 
 for  about  no  more  than  a  month  because 
 you  see  how  tight  this  nozzle  is.  It  is 
 not  an  ideal  planter  for  plants  that  you 
 want  to  rroot.  These  plants  will  root  in 
 about  a  month  and  you'll  start  to  see 
 them  kind  of  spiral  down.  And  when  that 
 happens,  you  don't  want  to  tug  on  those 
 tender  roots  by  getting  them  out.  So,  I 
 will  keep  it  in  for  a  few  weeks  and  then 
 take  it  out  so  I  can  go  ahead  and  put  it 
 back  in  the  garden.  It's  just  too  pretty 
 just  to  kind  of  toss.  So,  I  do  my  best 
 to  remember  to  do  that.  But  gosh,  what  a 
 beautiful,  beautiful  display  it  makes  as 
 a  gorgeous  centerpiece.  And  you  kind  of 
 see  what  I  mean.  If  you  have  them  in  a 
 real  vertical  planting  like  this,  gosh, 
 it  takes  no  space.  This  is  the  little 
 area  that  my  husband  and  I  will  have 
 dinner  when  the  kids  aren't  here  with 
 us.  It's  just  kind  of  a  nice  little  spot 
 in  the  TV  room  where  we  can  flip  the  TV 
 around  and  enjoy  this  area.  And  I  don't 
 feel  like  I  have  a  plant  right  in  my 
 face.  It's  right  above  us.  And  that  is 
 the  best  my  husband's  going  to  get 
 because  I  have  plants  everywhere.  So,  I 
 wanted  to  share  with  you  guys  this  one 
 because  it's  been  beautiful.  It's  been 
 easy.  It's  just  so  easy  to  work  with. 
 And  I  just  thought,  gosh,  if  you  guys 
 enjoy  plants  inside,  you  might  enjoy 
 these.  Now,  these  are  in  soil. 
 Originally,  these  little  acrylic  bowls 
 were  set  for  fish  bowls.  There's  no 
 pumps  or  no  nothing.  I'm  not  quite  sure 
 how  that  works.  So,  what  I  chose  to  do 
 with  them  is  fill  them  with  cocoa  core, 
 a  little  bit  of  moss  at  the  top,  and 
 then  plant  my  plants.  Now,  these  guys 
 have  been  in  here  for  2  years,  and  they 
 are  still  doing  stunning.  A  shame  to 
 tell  you  how  little  I  water  this  just 
 kind  of  as  needed.  It  looks  like  it 
 could  use  a  drink.  It's  been  about  a 
 month,  I  would  say,  since  I've  watered 
 her,  and  she's  still  doing  so,  so 
 stunning.  I  have  the  lemon  lime  poo 
 vine.  This  is  a  cutting  from  years  ago 
 of  the  zezy  plant  and  it  just  kind  of 
 stuck  it  into  those  spots  and  it's  done 
 super  super  well.  Adricia  down  here  at 
 the  bottom  have  done  fabulous.  I  will 
 put  the  link  to  the  description  down 
 below  where  I  got  these  from  which  was 
 just  Amazon  and  they've  just  been 
 fabulous.  They  don't  harm  my  wall. 
 They're  just  kind  of  easy  to  pop  in  and 
 pop  out  if  I  need  to  pop  them  off. 
 They're  on  a  little  screw  hook  here  and 
 that's  just  kind  of  how  they're  set  up. 
 generally  narrow  wall,  but  this  plant  is 
 one  that  I  take  clippings  off  all  the 
 time  and  add  to  other  parts  of  other 
 parts  of  the  garden.  I  have  several 
 clippings  from  this  plant  on  my  actual 
 living  wall.  So,  it  has  just  been  a 
 stunner.  Um,  and  it  keep  continues  to 
 grow  and  grow  and  grow.  I  have  a  little 
 old  light  that  I  put  on  years  ago. 
 They've  got  so  many  better  grow  lights 
 now.  That  was  just  to  kind  of  help  this 
 guy  get  going.  If  you  guys  enjoy 
 bringing  your  outdoors  inside,  then  this 
 might  be  kind  of  a  little  touch  that  you 
 might  want  to  do.  This  is  the  foxtail 
 fern.  It  always  stays  here.  This  is  kind 
 of  the  little  spot  that  I  like  to  keep 
 it  in.  As  you  can  see,  these  are  the 
 little  needles  that  I  mean  when  it 
 dries.  So,  over  time,  that  will  happen. 
 But  what  a  great  vertical  look.  And 
 trimming  has  to  be  done  on  that  every 
 couple  months  anyway.  So,  what  a  great 
 thing  to  utilize  the  trimmings  on  and 
 just  pop  them  into  a  little  bit  of  water 
 and  they  add  a  little  bit  of  green 
 inside  your  space.  All right,  you  guys. 
 I  also  wanted  to  throw  this  in  there. 
 You  know,  your  girl  is  a  landscape 
 designer  here  in  Vero  Beach,  Florida, 
 zone  10A.  I  have  an  in-house  landscape 
 design  team.  And  we  also  do  uh  landscape 
 designs  only  and  landscape 
 consultations,  virtual  consults  for 
 those  of  you  guys  who  may  not  need  a  big 
 master  plan  or  have  a  large  project,  but 
 might  just  need  some  help  with  some  key 
 areas  in  your  garden.  You  just  kind  of 
 need  somebody  to  walk  you  through  it. 
 I'm  happy  to  meet  with  you  and  talk  with 
 you  and  do  that.  So,  reach  out  to  us  and 
 we  will  talk  with  you  soon.  Thank  you  so 
 much  for  watching  today's  video.  Please 
 like  and  subscribe  and  check  out  our 
 most  recent  video.  I'm  sure  you  guys  are 
 going  to  enjoy  those  rare  finds,  those 
 rare  exotics  out  in  the  garden.

---

 Well,  hello  gardeners.  Welcome  back.  So 
 today's  video  is  going  to  happen  here  in 
 my  front  yard  of  Vero  Beach,  Florida, 
 zone  10A.  And  we  are  going  to  talk  about 
 some  rare  beauties  out  there.  Some  rare, 
 awesome,  gorgeous  palm  trees  that  you 
 don't  kind  of  run  across  very  often,  but 
 once  you  do,  you  just  can't  mistaken 
 them  from  anything  else.  They're  one  of 
 those  palms  that  you  have  a  guest 
 walking  through,  you're  like,  "What? 
 What  is  that?  That  is  so  cool,  so 
 unique,  so  fun."  If  you  got  that  special 
 spot  in  your  garden  and  you're  looking 
 for  unique  palm  to  work  into  that  spot, 
 we're  going  to  talk  about  a  handful  of 
 my  absolute  favorite.  But  before  we  get 
 started,  please  hit  that  like,  that 
 subscribe  button,  that  little 
 notification  bell.  We  post  every  single 
 weekend.  If  this  is  your  jam,  if  this  is 
 your  vibe  and  you  kind  of  like  to  talk 
 about  plants,  trees,  gardening,  and  the 
 combination  of  it  all.  Anyway,  let's  get 
 started,  you  guys.  This  is  the  very 
 first  palm  tree,  the  very  first  exotic 
 palm  that  I  wanted  to  mention.  It's 
 right  in  my  front  entrance  way.  So,  I 
 wanted  something  that  had  like  a  real 
 wow  factor.  This  is  right  by  my  front 
 door.  I  wanted  something  that  was  really 
 like  just  giant  fronds,  really  had  some 
 impact,  but  grew  really  slow.  So,  that 
 way  I  can  enjoy  it  for  years  and  years 
 and  years  before  I  have  to  start  putting 
 material  underneath  of  it  to  kind  of, 
 you  know,  layer  up  on  this  palm.  This  is 
 the  Fiji  palm.  I  absolutely  love  this 
 giant  frond,  you  guys.  I  mean,  I  just 
 feel  like  I'm  in  Hawaii  every  time  I  see 
 this  palm  frrawn.  It  is  fabulous.  It  has 
 a  little  bit  of  the  section  opening 
 here,  which  is  great  for  the  wind,  but 
 overall  you  can  see  it's  just  like  a  big 
 old  giant  giant  fan  underneath.  And  the 
 structure  is  so  fabulous.  Now,  this  is 
 zone  10A.  They  do  fabulous  all  the  way 
 down  south  from  the  Keys  all  the  way  up 
 in  kind  of  that  Palm  Bay  area.  That's 
 kind  of  where  our  break  is  because  when 
 you  hit  temperatures  like  32,  which  I 
 know  that  few  times  a  year  it  gets  down 
 to  that  over  in  the  Melbourne  area,  they 
 can  burn.  Now,  I  will  show  you  this  one 
 leaf  over  here.  This  is  an  old  growth 
 leaf.  This  is  from  this  past  season's 
 burn.  So,  you  can  kind  of  see  this  is 
 what  happens.  They'll  kind  of  speckle 
 like  this  when  they're  not  happy  with 
 the  cold  temperatures.  I  didn't  cover 
 this  tree,  but  I  had  so  much  foliage 
 down  below.  So,  I  really  felt  like  it 
 was  covered  enough,  but  boy  was  I  wrong. 
 And  we  did  not  get  into  super  freezing 
 temps.  I  mean,  I  think  we  got  down  to  32 
 twice  and  it  was  for  just  a  few  hours. 
 So,  anything  north  of  us,  this  is 
 probably  not  the  palm  for  you,  unless 
 you  plan  to  pot  it  and  cover  it  or  bring 
 it  in  during  the  season.  And  totally 
 worth  that,  you  guys,  cuz  it  grows  so 
 slow.  It  holds  this  kind  of  frrawn 
 canopy  for  years  and  years  and  years. 
 So,  this  tree  is  probably  close  to  9  to 
 10  years  old,  and  you  can  tell  that  it 
 is  not  grown  much.  You  need  something 
 that's  going  to  offer  like  a  powerful 
 punch  in  a  garden  and  kind  of  give  you 
 that  exotic  look.  This  is  a  fabulous  one 
 to  do.  pair  it  with  something  above  it 
 like  a  coconut  palm  or  big  kind  of 
 heavier  frrawn  leaves  and  wow  what  a 
 contrast  those  two  make.  So  it's 
 definitely  worth  using  in  your  garden. 
 So  this  guy  grows  about  6  in  to  max  a 
 foot  a  year.  It  really  is  a  slow  slow 
 grower.  You  can  get  it  in  a  threegon  pot 
 size.  So  do  not  feel  like  you've  got  to 
 start  super  big  on  these  guys.  I  started 
 with  a  25gallon  size  here  and  it's  been 
 in  the  ground  for  about  5  years  now.  So 
 it  really  hasn't  grown  much  at  all 
 considering  this  is  not  a  self-cleaning 
 palm.  So  you  do  have  to  hand  trim.  So  I 
 use  my  loppers  in  here  and  you  trim  as 
 close  to  the  base  as  you  can  get.  So  you 
 just  trim  right  in  here  at  the  base 
 here.  Lop  it  like  so.  And  then  these  are 
 fabulous  if  you  got  big  voses  outside. 
 You  can  use  these  and  keep  them  in  those 
 vases.  They'll  stay  a  nice  green  for  a 
 good  6  weeks.  And  then  even  when  they 
 turn  brown,  I  think  they're  a  phenomenal 
 like  little  architectural  structure.  So 
 I've  got  some  voses  that  I  love  to 
 incorporate  those  in.  Mix  them  with  some 
 helakonas  and  you  have  such  a  be  or  the 
 tops  of  the  antiloo's  back  there  and 
 you've  got  a  beautiful  tropical  Hawaii 
 kind  of  cluster.  All right  you  guys.  So 
 my  next  favorite  rare  palm  is  one  of  my 
 favorite  palms  that  I  have  out  of  all 
 the  palms  in  my  whole  garden.  It  is  my 
 top  favorite  palm.  It  is  absolutely 
 stunning.  It  is  the  carpoxilon  palm. 
 It's  this  beautiful  gal  right  here 
 behind  me.  She  is  absolutely  stunning 
 with  her  big  crown  shaft.  They're  very, 
 very  compact  and  vertical  and  then  right 
 along  the  edges,  they  just  do  that  very 
 elegant  curl.  It's  almost  like  she's 
 curtsying  for  us.  I  absolutely  love  her. 
 I  love  the  way  she  pops  up  just  above 
 that  roof  line  there.  You  can  really  see 
 that  canopy  coverage.  Just  kind  of  do 
 that  nice  gentle  curl.  Nice  and  compact 
 with  a  beautiful  head  to  it.  And  then  a 
 gorgeous,  gorgeous  dark  green  trunk  that 
 goes  to  a  kind  of  a  nice  cane  roped 
 base,  which  is  beautiful.  At  the  very 
 very  bottom,  it  opens  up  like  it  looks 
 like  an  elephant's  foot.  The  way  it 
 opens  up,  it  reminds  me  of  like  a 
 ponytail  palm  base.  Just  the  way  it  gets 
 chunky  and  fat.  I  had  three  of  them  in 
 my  garden.  These  two  guys  in  my  garden, 
 I  started,  they  were  around  the  10ft 
 range  when  they  were  put  in  cuz  I  know 
 they  grow  super  super  slow.  However, 
 they  have  now  finally  gotten  some  size 
 and  they've  grown  exceptionally  slow  is 
 the  only  negative  I  would  say  to  this 
 particular  tree.  But  if  you've  got  a 
 spot  in  your  yard  that  you  need  it  to 
 stay  rather  small  for  a  long  period  of 
 time,  this  is  your  tree.  This  is  a  focal 
 point  tree.  Definitely  is  not  one  to  be 
 confused  with  many  other  palms, 
 especially  I  hope  it  comes  across  this 
 way.  Like  when  I'm  looking  at  it  first 
 on  like  this,  there  is  just  it  kind  of 
 has  a  little  bit  of  a  King  Alexander 
 mixed  with  a  royal  palm  mixed  with  a 
 bottle  palm.  And  I  don't  know  what  the 
 canopy  looks  like.  It's  just  got  a  mix 
 of  all  of  my  favorite  palm  trees  allin 
 one.  So,  it's  definitely  one  to  find. 
 You  can  definitely  find  it  here  in  Palm 
 City,  Stewart,  Florida,  Homestead,  Plant 
 Ant.  It  is  a  fantastic  resource  to  find 
 some  of  these  exotic  palm  trees.  You  can 
 also  see  what  nurseries  in  your  area 
 carry  it  or  if  they  can  bring  it  in 
 because  these  are  definitely,  you  know, 
 if  you're  going  to  have  that  one  little 
 area  to  incorporate  a  tree,  this  is  one 
 to  incorporate.  So,  I  hope  you  guys  like 
 it.  And  it  can  handle  some  light 
 temperatures.  It  really  doesn't  like 
 freeze  temperatures.  So,  anything  from 
 32  and  warmer  ideal.  Um,  growth  habits 
 super  super  slow.  Trimming  is 
 self-cleaning.  So,  however,  it's  not  a 
 heavy  canopy  frond  base.  So,  I  normally 
 just  actually  trim  them  myself  when  they 
 kind  of  start  to  get  brown  a  little  bit 
 cuz  it  does  take  a  long  time  for  them  to 
 release  their  frond.  And  then  overall 
 growth.  I  mean,  they  will  get  all  the 
 way  to  that  27  to  30  foot  range,  but  it 
 will  take  years  and  years  and  years  and 
 years  for  that  happen  because  they're 
 such  slow  growing  trees,  but  they're 
 definitely  something  to  consider  for 
 that  perfect  spot  in  your  garden  because 
 they  are  one  of  those  unique  species 
 that  just  stand  on  their  own.  So,  let's 
 go  to  the  next  one.  All right,  you  guys. 
 So,  my  next  rare  find  is  the  penanga 
 coronada.  This  is  a  small  palm,  very, 
 very  vertical.  It  has  multi-  trunks  to 
 it.  Sometimes  called  the  ivory  cane 
 palm,  which  because  they  have  those 
 beautiful  white  canes  as  they  start  to 
 get  some  size  to  it,  but  grow  very  very 
 vertical  and  very  compact.  And  the  leaf 
 is  kind  of  like  on  top  of  one  another. 
 So  it's  one  leaf  and  then  you  see 
 another  leaf  and  it's  just  really  really 
 vertical  and  really  small.  Unlike  a  palm 
 that  somebody  might  consider  similar  to 
 it  and  looks  like  the  Eureka  palm  or  cat 
 palm  or  something  like  that,  but  those 
 palms  have  a  tendency  to  really  widen 
 out,  really  open  up.  This  is  more  of  a 
 vertical  palm.  So,  it  is  actually 
 related  to  the  lipstick  palm.  It  has  a 
 very  similar  look.  However,  it  doesn't 
 have  those  beautiful  red  crown  shafts 
 like  the  lipstick  palm.  I  would 
 obviously  totally  have  that  palm  in  my 
 garden,  but  I  just  cannot  commit  to  a 
 palm  that  pricey  that  really  can't 
 handle  any  kind  of  cold  temps  because  we 
 do  get  them.  As  a  good  gardening  parent 
 that  I  am,  I  can't  say  that  I'm  out  here 
 covering  things  all  the  time.  I  mean,  we 
 might  have  some  hot  spots  where  I'm 
 willing  to  cover,  but  I  definitely  can't 
 do  that  with  a  lot  of  my  exotics.  So,  I 
 have  to  make  sure  that  the  palms  that  I 
 do  choose  can  handle  our  temperatures 
 really  well  and  that  are  also  going  to 
 work  for  our  space  long  term.  So,  this 
 is  kind  of  a  lookalike  version  of  that 
 without  the  red  cane.  But  what  I  do  like 
 about  this  palm,  if  you  guys  have  a 
 courtyard  space  or  a  nice  little  nook 
 space  or  an  area  along  a  wall  or  maybe 
 near  a  screen  room  that  you  kind  of  want 
 to  do  some  cool  impacts,  this  is  a  great 
 palm  that  stays  kind  of  narrow  and 
 really  kind  of  crowns  on  itself.  So 
 you'll  have  a  leaf  on  leaf  and  it  really 
 can  be  nice  and  vertical  and  you  can 
 keep  it  that  way.  You  can  fit  like  a  lot 
 of  palm  in  a  little  space  because  it's 
 not  going  to  widen  out  or  outrow  that 
 space.  So  very  very  narrow.  Trimming  on 
 it  is  super  super  easy.  You  can  see  that 
 it'll  have  a  yellow  leaf  or  a  brown 
 leaf.  And  when  that  happens,  all  you  do 
 is  you  take  your  loppers  or  your  nippers 
 and  then  you  just  clip  as  close  to  the 
 palm  base  as  possible.  So,  right  here 
 along  this  edge  is  kind  of  where  you 
 want  to  clip.  Hopefully,  you  can  get  a  a 
 decent  idea  to  see  what  one  clump  looks 
 like.  As  they  grow  together,  they  still 
 stay  real  real  vertical  and  work  in  a 
 space.  The  growth  habit  on  this  guy  is 
 super  slow  because  I've  got  a  lot  of 
 large  variety  palms  behind  me.  You  guys 
 who  especially  those  of  you  guys  who  are 
 new  to  Florida,  you'll  figure  out  in  the 
 palm  world,  in  the  plant  world,  one  of 
 the  first  questions  that  you  ask  all  the 
 garden  centers  is  how  big  does  it  get 
 and  how  fast  does  it  get  there?  Cuz  you 
 know,  you  can  like  go  to  bed  one  night 
 and  you  put  a  traveler's  palm  in,  it's 
 only  this  high  and  you  wake  up  the  next 
 morning  and  it's  this  high.  That's  how  a 
 lot  of  our  palms  are  in  Florida.  They  go 
 from  mini  monsters  to  big  monsters 
 pretty  pretty  fast.  So  when  you  can  find 
 a  tree  that  is  a  cool  looking  tree  in  a 
 small  size  and  it  stays  that  way  for  a 
 long  length  of  time  to  me  that  is  a 
 winter  winter  chicken  dinner  in  my  palm 
 garden  variety  book  any  single  day.  So 
 Penangga  Coronada  is  totally  one  of 
 those  perfect  palms  to  do.  It  loves  the 
 8212  palm  gain  fertilizer.  Hit  it  every 
 single  quarter.  I  hit  it  in  March,  June, 
 September,  and  then  December  if  it's 
 nice  and  warm  still  in  December,  which 
 it  usually  is  in  our  area.  hit  it  that 
 way  and  it  you  won't  have  problems  with 
 pests  or  bugs  or  the  cold  temps.  It'll 
 just  be  a  strong  strong  tree.  That's 
 what  I  do  with  all  my  tropicals  and  it 
 just  takes  the  cake,  you  guys.  So,  yeah. 
 So,  this  is  one  of  my  favorites.  So, 
 let's  hop  into  the  next  one.  All right, 
 you  guys.  So,  now  for  Bryce's  favorite 
 palm  in  our  whole  yard,  which  is  the 
 Capernicia  fencis.  This  palm  is 
 obviously  one  of  those  big  giant  fanlike 
 beautiful  species.  Very,  very  vertical, 
 very  upright.  Some  people  will  confuse 
 it  with  a  Bismar  palm,  which  is  also 
 beautiful.  However,  this  one  is  more 
 compact.  So,  at  the  trunk,  it  stays  nice 
 and  compact  at  the  center.  And  instead 
 of  it  widening  out  at  the  canopy  from 
 the  trunk,  it  actually  stays  real 
 vertical  to  the  trunk  itself.  So,  it 
 stays  compact  and  upright.  And  the  fans 
 almost  interlock  with  each  other  as  it 
 starts  to  open  up  and  bloom.  And  that 
 doesn't  change  even  when  it  gets  large. 
 Now,  this  tree  will  get  large.  It  does 
 take  a  long  time  unlike  the  bismar  palm. 
 But  you  can  kind  of  see  kind  of  the 
 pattern  that  we're  going  with.  Some  of 
 these  exotic,  some  of  these  rare  palm 
 trees  grow  exceptionally  slow,  which  I 
 think  is  part  of  what  makes  them  rare 
 because  they're  harder  to  find  in  the 
 nurseries  because  of  that  reason.  But 
 they  are  well  worth  it  because  if  you 
 got  tons  of  varieties  of  beautiful  fast 
 growing  palms  and  you  have  key  areas 
 that  you  kind  of  want  small  palms  with  a 
 dynamic  look  and  you  want  them  to  stay 
 that  way  for  a  long  period  of  time, 
 check  out  some  of  these  palms  in  this 
 video  because  these  are  things  that  are 
 have  been  in  my  garden  for  years  and 
 years  and  years.  And  then  you  can  kind 
 of  see  the  things  around  them  have 
 really  grown  up  while  these  guys  have 
 stayed  nice  and  compact  and  small.  Now 
 the  trimming  on  this  guy  is  about  the 
 same  as  it  would  be  a  Bismar.  You  know, 
 you  take  those  old  fronds.  It  is  not 
 self-cleaning.  You  lop  them  off  and  they 
 can  get  kind  of  large  in  size.  So,  as 
 they  get  bigger,  you're  going  to  have  to 
 have  a  maintenance  company  come  through 
 and  probably  trim  those  as  the  tree  gets 
 taller.  This  tree  will  grow  all  the  way 
 up  into  the  30ft  range.  So,  it  will  get 
 some  size,  but  I'll  be  long  and  gone  by 
 the  time  this  guy  gets  that  way  because 
 they  grow  so  darn  slow.  He's  been  in  the 
 ground  for  about  four  years  and  probably 
 has  put  maybe  a  foot  and  a  half  on.  You 
 can  really  see  how  long  it  takes  for 
 them  to  get  some  decent  size  to  them. 
 But  there  is  one  thing  I  wanted  to  add 
 on  this  particular  palm.  Because  those 
 fans  are  so  compact  and  tight,  they  can 
 act  as  kind  of  like  wind  sails  in  the 
 garden.  So  if  we're  getting  a  hurricane 
 or  if  we're  getting  some  heavy  storms  or 
 a  rainy  season,  then  you  want  to  make 
 sure  that  you  do  strap  that  tree  up  nice 
 and  tight.  So  this  tree  has  been  in  the 
 ground  a  very  long  time  like  I  said,  but 
 I  still  have  straps  on  it  to  help 
 support  it  because  that  canopy  is  almost 
 taller  than  the  trunk  itself.  So,  it's  a 
 little  topheavy,  which  makes  it  kind  of 
 a  unique  look  to  a  palm  because  it's 
 normally  the  opposite,  more  trunk  than 
 canopy.  But  because  this  one  is  situated 
 that  way,  it  can  actually  blow  over  or 
 lay  crooked  very,  very  easy.  So, 
 definitely  when  you  put  this  guy  in 
 young,  stake  him  nice  and  tight  with 
 four  stakes  with  some  rebar  in  the 
 ground  and  then  he'll  be  good  to  go. 
 Palm  fertilizer  is  super  important  with 
 this  guy  because,  of  course,  we  want 
 that  trunk.  We  want  him  to  be  a  solid 
 base,  a  solid  tree,  and  they're  rather 
 expensive.  So  you  want  to  make  sure  that 
 you  know  you  give  it  everything  it  needs 
 to  really  become  a  dense  and  heavily 
 rooted  tree  in  a  garden.  This  is  a 
 perfect  perfect  palm  for  a  centerpiece 
 kind  of  like  how  I  have  it  shown  here. 
 All right  you  guys.  So  for  the  next  rare 
 find  is  the  pendo  palm  or  also  known  as 
 the  jelly  palm.  Now  I  know  what  you're 
 thinking.  You're  thinking,  "Well,  that's 
 not  really  a  rare  palm  species."  And 
 it's  technically  not.  But  what  does  make 
 this  one  a  little  bit  more  unique  is 
 it's  multi-  trunk  to  it.  This  is  a 
 triple  version.  They  come  in  triple, 
 double,  and  of  course  they  come  in 
 singles.  And  I've  seen  them  in  quads. 
 I've  just  not  had  a  chance  to  plant  a 
 quad  yet.  So,  but  this  triple  variety  is 
 just  so  fabulous,  so  unique.  I  think 
 that  it's  the  perfect  tree  for  the 
 corner  of  my  property.  This  is  coming 
 right  to  the  sideyard  entrance  of  my 
 garden.  So,  it  really  does  a  great  job 
 of  kind  of  anchoring  the  edge  of  my 
 property  line.  This  is  a  tree  that  you 
 see  when  you  first  pull  right  into  my 
 driveway.  So,  I  think  it's  just  fabulous 
 for  that  little,  you  know,  that  anchor 
 spot  in  the  garden.  I'm  going  to  kind  of 
 go  into  the  middle  here  to  show  you, 
 give  you  a  good  point  of  reference  about 
 how  big  this  tree  is.  So,  this  is  the 
 center  of  this  tree  that  I'm  standing 
 into.  This  is  the  mounding  area.  These 
 trunks  themselves  kind  of  compete  with 
 each  other.  So,  it  causes  the  tree 
 canopy  to  be  a  little  bit  more  vertical, 
 a  little  bit  more  straight,  and  then  a 
 little  curl  at  the  edges  of  the  palm 
 frrons  where  if  it's  a  single,  you'll 
 notice  that  they'll  be  a  little  bit  more 
 wider,  a  little  bit  more  open,  more  like 
 a  bouquet  style  where  it's  tight  in  the 
 middle  and  then  really  fans  out.  But 
 because  of  this  particular  variety, 
 they're  more  vertical  and  more  linear 
 this  way,  which  I  think  to  me  makes  it 
 have  a  whole  another  look.  They  have  a 
 silverish  tone  to  the  leaf,  which  I 
 think  is  really  cool,  especially  when 
 you  have  a  lot  of  greenery  in  your 
 garden.  That  bright  silver  tone  really 
 shows  off  in  a  palm  tree.  I  think  kind 
 of  like  the  copperia  fences  that  we  just 
 looked  at.  This  is  also  not  a 
 self-cleaning  tree.  It  is  one  you  will 
 have  to  cut.  So,  you  will  have  to  cut 
 this  tree.  some  of  the  brown  or  older 
 limbs.  I've  got  a  few  of  those  in  here 
 that  I  have  to  actually  get  in  here  and 
 do.  You  can  trim  it  with,  you  know,  your 
 loppers  or  you  can  use  a  saw  and  kind  of 
 cut  it  at  an  angle  here  to  kind  of  give 
 it  more  of  an  interesting  trunk  base. 
 Kind  of  cutting  those  boots  at  an  angle, 
 giving  you  kind  of  more  of  that  diamond 
 cut  type  of  look.  But  they  grow  so  so 
 slow  that  you  really  only  have  to  do 
 that  at  the  most.  I  mean,  you  could  do 
 it  once  a  year.  You  could  probably  do  it 
 once  every  two  years  because  it's  just 
 such  a  slow  growing  tree.  So,  I  rarely 
 have  to  get  in  here  and  cut  on  this 
 tree.  I  almost  forget  about  it.  Just 
 like  you  see  here,  I've  got  one  or  two 
 brown  fronds  that  probably  need  to  go 
 because  I  always  forget  to  cut  it.  So, 
 but  yeah,  this  is  a  great  great  focal 
 point  tree.  It  grows  about  a  foot  a  year 
 if  you're  lucky  in  really  really  good 
 condition.  So,  super  super  slow  growing, 
 stays  where  you  put  it,  nice  anchor 
 point,  and  definitely  a  tree  worth 
 having.  This  guy  can  handle  freezing 
 temperatures.  I  have  seen  them  planted 
 all  the  way  into  Georgia  into  the  South 
 Carolina  area.  So,  for  you  guys  who  are 
 in  those  tough  zones,  pendop  palms  are 
 ideal  for  that.  and  so  are  the  next  two 
 palms  that  we're  going to  talk  about. 
 But  now  for  the  next  two  trees  in 
 today's  video.  I  do  not  have  them  yet  in 
 my  garden.  I'm  sure  I'm  going  to  find  a 
 spot  for  them  somewhere,  but  I  don't 
 have  them  yet.  But  I've  definitely 
 thought  they  were  worth  mentioning  and 
 sharing  with  you  guys  because  they're 
 both  more  on  the  cold  tolerant  side,  but 
 they're  actually  at  one  of  the  nurseries 
 that  we  actually  purchased  from.  So, 
 we're  going  to  hop  on  over  there  and 
 share  those  with  you  guys.  So,  let's  go. 
 All right,  you  guys.  So,  we  are  here  at 
 the  nursery  and  this  is  one  of  my 
 favorites  amongst  many  of  my  other 
 favorites.  This  is  the  Kentopsis  palm. 
 It  is  a  gorgeous  palm  tree.  Now,  I  tend 
 to  get  them  in  this  kind  of  size.  Um, 
 they're  commonly  found  this  size  whether 
 they're  30  gallon,  45  gallon  or  in  the 
 ground  just  like  you  see  here. 
 Technically  a  self-cleaning  palm,  but  I 
 will  tell  you  most  of  the  time  you  will 
 have  to  trim  that  frrawn.  It  will  be 
 self-cleaning  after  a  long  period  of 
 time  after  the  weight  on  that  limbs 
 tends  to  put  pressure  to  release,  but 
 that  tends  to  take  a  long  time.  So  I 
 would  say  most  of the  time  I  tell  my 
 clients  to  just  go  ahead  and  cut  that 
 limb  when  it  turns  brown.  But  overall  I 
 think  this  is  a  very  very  cool  tree.  It 
 has  a  beautiful  upright  canopy  to  it. 
 When  it  gets  some  size  that  canopy 
 really  opens  up.  Also  keeps  the 
 stiffness  to  those  fronds.  So  it's  not  a 
 real  heavily  wavy  or  soft  lacy  kind  of 
 tree  like  the  next  tree  we're  going  to 
 talk  about.  This  one  is  more  vertical, 
 more  dynamic,  more  upright.  So  I  think 
 that  that's  what  makes  it  look  so  exotic 
 because  everybody's  like  that's  not  an 
 Alexander,  is  it?  or  what  is  that?  The 
 leaf  itself  on  this  tree  is  just  so 
 magnanimous.  It's  so  big  and  so  broad 
 for  such  a  small  frame  tree.  I  think  it 
 makes  it  look  so  cool  in  a  garden.  Now, 
 you  can  plant  these  like  you  would  plant 
 a  foxtail  palm  and  stagger  them  in  and 
 just  kind  of  like  rows  in  the  garden  and 
 they  can  kind  of  really  really  give  you 
 that  palm  row  kind  of  feel  because  of 
 just  what  kind  of  stature  they  bring  to 
 the  garden.  What's  nice  about  this 
 particular  tree  for  such  an  exotic  palm, 
 it  is  very  cold  tolerant.  So  this  can 
 get  into  the  20s  which  is  ideal  for  any 
 of  us  flidians.  You  know  if  you  want  to 
 incorporate  some  palms  of  a  little  bit 
 north  of  us  then  this  is  an  ideal  palm 
 to  do.  Now  it  doesn't  like  it  for  any 
 length  of  time.  So  it  can't  be  like  in 
 Georgia  or  the  Carolinas  but  your  kind 
 of  your  cut  off  point  I  would  say  would 
 be  you  know  just  northn  north  Florida. 
 So  this  is  great  palm  to  have  if  you 
 don't  want  something  growing  too  too 
 fast.  This  palm  is  about  a  foot  and  a 
 half  to  two  foot  a  year.  So  a  little 
 faster  than  the  last  few  palms  that  we 
 talked  about  but  overall  it  is  a  um  slow 
 grower.  It  loves  palm  gain.  So,  I  use 
 8212  palm  gain  fertilizer  on  this  guy 
 four  times  a  year  and  help  keep  these 
 leaves  nice  and  dark  green.  You  can  tell 
 in  this  particular  setting  that  it's  in 
 the  ground  and  it  needs  a  shot  of 
 fertilizer.  Has  a  little  bit  of 
 potassium  deficiency.  So,  hitting  it 
 with  some  granular  this  time  of  year  is 
 going  to  be  ideal  for  the  grower.  If  you 
 guys  find  it  in  a  potted  location  or  at 
 a  nursery  in  a  pot  35  or  45gallon,  don't 
 hesitate  to  get  it  cuz  they're  usually 
 gorgeous  and  dark  green  in  a  pot  because 
 it's  really  contained  and  I  know  that 
 they  do  their  great  job  of  fertilizing 
 them.  But  this  is  a  fabulous  tree  to 
 incorporate.  It  is  middle  of  the  row 
 when  it  comes  to  growth  and  it  will  get 
 nice  and  tall.  So  definitely  leave  some 
 room  for  that.  But  it's  got  a  gorgeous 
 canopy  to  it.  Nice  upright  strong  fronds 
 that  really  hold  their  own.  But  now 
 let's  pop  over  right  across  the  hall 
 from  here  and  uh  look  at  the  next  tree 
 in  the  grouping.  This  is  the  mule  palm. 
 This  tree  itself  is  absolutely  just  a 
 fun  tree  to  work  with.  It  is  a  cross 
 between  the  pendo  palm  and  the  queen 
 palm.  Now,  the  queen  palm  has  had  its 
 share  of  troubles  with  it's  had  fungus 
 issues.  It's  had  problems  over  the  last 
 few  years.  So,  it's  definitely  not  a 
 palm  that  I  incorporate  anymore  into 
 gardens.  However,  this  cross  species  has 
 really,  really  taken  to  its  own.  It 
 makes  a  fabulous  intermediate  tree.  So, 
 if  you're  looking  for  long-term 
 coverage,  a  big  frond  canopy  with  a 
 short  trunk,  this  is  a  great  tree  to  do 
 that.  What  it  carries  over  from  one  of 
 its  parents,  which  is  the  pendo  palm,  is 
 that  short  base  and  that  bigger  frond 
 canopy.  So  you  can  kind  of  see  that's 
 exactly  what  this  guy  does.  It  has  a 
 short  bulbous  base  on  the  bottom  and 
 then  most  of  the  tree  itself  is  frrawn. 
 Now  that  is  going  to  carry  over  through 
 most  of  its  life.  So  it  will  continue  to 
 get  bigger  as  most  palm  trees  do.  But  it 
 also  have  the  ratio  would  be  more  frunk 
 which  is  ideal  for  a  lot  of  areas 
 especially  those  of  you  guys  who  have 
 few  lines  of  water  and  you  kind  of  want 
 to  keep  that  understory  a  little  bit 
 clean  but  you  need  something  really 
 dense  and  full  above  to  kind  of  block 
 out  those  roof  lines.  I  get  a  lot  of 
 those  questions  in  the  comments.  So, 
 this  is  an  ideal  tree  to  do  that  with. 
 You  know,  get  one  that  has  about  4  foot 
 of  clearance  if  you  can  and  then  you 
 have  that  canopy  and  it  stays  that  way 
 for  a  long  period  of  time.  This  tree 
 grows  6  foot  to  max  1  foot  per  year.  So, 
 very  very  slow  growing  tree  in  general. 
 It  can  be  a  tree  that  gets  easily 
 deficient  if  your  soil  is  not  very  good. 
 So,  you  definitely  want  to  use  some  good 
 compost  with  it  and  then  keep  it 
 fertilized  regularly  with  that  8212  and 
 it's  going  to  be  fabulous.  It  has  a  very 
 very  dark  green  coloring  to  the  leaf  and 
 very  cold  tolerant.  So  this  is  like  its 
 parent  which  is  the  queen  palm  and  the 
 pendo  palm.  Both  of  them  cold  tolerant 
 palm.  So  it  really  allows  you  to  plant 
 this  these  guys  all  the  way  up  into  the 
 Georgia  area.  I  mean  they  these  can 
 handle  into  the  20s  and  take  it  like  a 
 champ.  And  they're  a  great  intermediate 
 tree  to  incorporate  with  some  of  your 
 taller  palm  trees.  So  they  can  handle 
 our  heat  as  far  south  as  the  Keys  all 
 the  way  up  north  to  North  Florida  and 
 beyond.  So  definitely  a  good  palm  to 
 work  with.  It  is  technically  hitting  my 
 rare  palm  species  because  they  are  hard 
 to  find.  Even  for  instance  where  we  are 
 here  in  Bureau  Beach,  we've  got  one  row 
 of  these  that  are  remaining.  And  this  is 
 a  huge  palm  nursery  with  thousands  of 
 foxtails  and  queens  and  other  varieties 
 of  species  of  trees.  But  the  Kentopsis 
 and  the  meal  palms,  we  actually  only 
 have  one  row  left  and  there's  barely  any 
 left  that  are  available  in  this  two 
 particular  rows.  So,  you're  going  to  see 
 that  across  nurseries  that  you  look  for. 
 And  I  think  the  common  denominator  is 
 the  slow  growth  of  these  rare  trees. 
 Obviously,  the  dynamic  fronds  that  they 
 offer,  their  ability  to  handle  some  of 
 the  colder  temps,  the  dwarfism  on  many 
 of  them  where  they  just  kind  of  over 
 time  just  kind  of  stay  more  compact  and 
 low  to  the  ground.  Those  are  all  really, 
 really  big  bonuses  in  our  palm  world. 
 So,  that  makes  them  a  little  bit  more 
 exotic,  a  little  harder  to  find  because 
 takes  them  a  little  bit  more  time  to  get 
 established.  whether  it's  a  grower  or  a 
 nursery  that  you're  picking  them  up. 
 Take  some  time  to  cultivate  them  and  get 
 to  them  to  where  they're  up  for  sale  and 
 ready  and  looking  their  best.  So,  I 
 think  that's  kind  of  what  classifies 
 these  last  two  as  more  of  your  rare 
 finds.  So,  you  guys  will  have  to  let  me 
 know  if  there  are  any  palms  that  you've 
 incorporated  into  your  space  that  you 
 just  think,  "Oh  my  gosh,  this  is  rare 
 and  this  is  fun  and  it's  done  fabulous." 
 Stick  in  the  comments  down  below  because 
 we  would  love  to  hear  about  it  and  I'm 
 sure  our  other  members  of  this  community 
 would  love  to  hear  more  suggestions  in 
 that  field.  However,  if  you  guys  are 
 having  trouble  finding  some  of  these 
 plants  and  you  are  looking  to  have  some 
 of  this  work  done  for  you,  located, 
 sourced,  and  installed,  then  reach  out 
 to  your  girl.  You  know,  I  am  a  landscape 
 designer.  We  work  along  the  Treasure  and 
 Space  Coast.  However,  for  those  of  you 
 guys  who  are  outside  of  that  area,  we  do 
 have  a  designonly  service.  And  then  now 
 we  also  have  a  virtual  consultation  for 
 just  like  specific  areas  that  you  might 
 have  or  need  a  little  bit  of  help  for  in 
 your  garden.  So,  those  of  you  guys  who 
 are  sourcing  this  material  and  you're 
 looking  to  incorporate  some  of  these 
 rare  finds  into  your  garden,  check  out 
 Plant  Ant.  It  has  been  a  fantastic 
 resource.  We  suggest  it  to  all  of  our 
 clients.  This  is  not  a  sponsored  video. 
 I  just  love  that's  an  option.  You  can 
 log  in,  put  in  your  zip  code,  put  in  the 
 plant  of  choice,  and  find  out  what 
 nursery  nearby  might  have  it.  So,  you 
 can  incorporate  some  of  these  beauties 
 and  not  have  to  hit  the  road  and  spend 
 your  gas  finding  them  the  hard  way.  So, 
 hopefully  that  does  help.  If  you  guys 
 enjoyed  today's  video,  please  hit  that 
 like  button.  And  of  course,  if  you 
 haven't  subscribed,  I  don't  know  where 
 you've  been.  Please  subscribe  because 
 you  will  see  us  every  single  weekend  in 
 your  feed.  We  post  every  single  weekend 
 with  content  just  like  this.  And  we  will 
 pop  in  a  video  over  here  of  our  last 
 garden  tour,  which  was  a  beautiful 
 butterfly  garden.  So,  if  you  like  those 
 happily  winged  friends,  you  might  really 
 enjoy  this  video.  Take  care.

---

 Well,  hello  gardeners.  Welcome  back. 
 Today  we  are  in  my  backyard  yet  again, 
 but  with  really,  really  good  reason. 
 Today  I  want  to  share  with  you  guys  some 
 things  that  gosh,  I  wish  I  would  have 
 done  in  my  backyard  space  right  away  in 
 the  part  of  my  planning  of  what  we  were 
 going  to  create  in  this  space.  This 
 might  be  really,  really  helpful  to  you 
 guys  to  either  incorporate  right  off  the 
 bat,  you  know,  put  it  in  your  planning 
 stages  to  save  you  some  time,  money,  and 
 having  to  redo  some  things  in  the 
 future.  These  are  four  things  that  I 
 just  kind  of  wish  I  would  have  realized 
 earlier  on  in  the  stages.  And  I  thought 
 as  a  landscape  designer,  if  I  had  made 
 these  mistakes,  then  might  be  something 
 that  that  you  may  have  overlooked,  too. 
 So,  those  of  you  guys  who  are  new  to 
 gardening,  I  hope  this  really  helps  you 
 guys  out.  You  guys  know  if  you  watch  my 
 channel,  you  know  I  am  a  landscape 
 designer  of  over  25  years.  So,  if  you 
 are  looking  to  have  some  landscaping 
 work  done,  you're  in  the  Treasure  or 
 Space  Coast  area,  please  reach  out  to 
 us.  Those  of  you  guys  who  are  outside 
 that  area,  we  do  also  have  a  designonly 
 service  as  well  as  a  virtual  service.  I 
 will  be  sure  to  put  all  of  that  on  the 
 screen  so  you  guys  can  screenshot  that 
 bad  boy.  But  for  now,  let's  move  right 
 into  the  first  tip.  Those  of  you  guys 
 who  have  seen  my  backyard  tour  know  that 
 it  is  jampacked  full  of  palms  and  trees 
 and  offers  not  only  just  that  beauty 
 that  I  want  to  see  every  time  I  walk  out 
 my  backd  door  space,  but  it  offers  me 
 privacy.  tons  and  tons  and  tons  of 
 privacy,  which  is  what  I  look  for  in  my 
 typical  suburban  front  yard,  backyard 
 situation  that  I  have.  But  at  the  same 
 time,  since  I've  utilized,  as  my  husband 
 says,  every  square  inch  of  my  yard  for 
 plants  and  trees,  there  is  very,  very 
 little  space  for  concealing  the  fallen 
 tree  debris,  any  kind  of  clippings  or 
 cutings  or  anything  like  that.  We  don't 
 have  a  big  storage  area.  We're  not 
 allowed  to  have  sheds  here.  So,  as  far 
 as  garbage  cans  go,  we  don't  have,  you 
 know,  tons  of  them  along  our  sideyard  to 
 house  all  that  material.  So,  what  I  wish 
 I  would  have  done  from  the  very 
 beginning  was  create  a  space  that  could 
 house  that  material.  Since  then,  I've 
 cleared  out  a  spot.  So,  I  thought  if  I 
 shared  that  with  you  guys,  then  in  your 
 planning  stages  of  your  buffer  planting, 
 you  might  take  a  part  of  that  buffer. 
 So,  if  it's  very  similar  to  my  backyard 
 space,  which  is  a  pretty  much  a  buffer 
 from  one  corner  of  the  backyard  to  the 
 other  corner  of  the  backyard,  you  might 
 move  one  corner  up  and  then  create  just 
 a  little  nook,  just  a  little  spot  just 
 behind  there  that  when  you're  walking 
 through  your  garden  and  you've  got  some 
 fallen  tree  debris  and  some  brown  fronds 
 that  you're  going  to  absolutely  see  in 
 your  garden,  and  you  grab  those  guys, 
 you  walk  them  around  that  spot,  pile 
 them  in  that  section.  And  I  have  a 
 lovely  lawn  maintenance  guy  who  I  pay  an 
 extra  $20  a  month  to,  and  every  single 
 week  when  he's  here  doing  my  natural 
 clippings,  he  will  grab  that  debris, 
 take  it  with  him,  so  I  don't  have  to 
 worry  about  hauling  that  and  cutting  it 
 up,  putting  it  into  the  trash,  whatnot. 
 It's  just  a  common  thing  for  them  to  do. 
 I  encourage  all  my  clients  to  do  it,  and 
 they're  usually  like,  "Oh  my  gosh, 
 that's  absolutely  great  because  I  didn't 
 know what  I  was  going to  do  with  all  of 
 this  debris."  Because  we  also  live  in  a 
 community  just  like  you  guys.  So,  let  me 
 share  with  you  guys  where  my  little 
 secret  spot  is.  So,  we  are  going  to  walk 
 right  through  my  little  arbor.  This  is 
 brand  new,  by  the  way.  Oh  my  goodness, 
 you  guys.  I  cannot  wait  for  this 
 Confederate  jasmine  to  take  off.  But 
 this  is  the  end  of  my  property  line.  You 
 can  see  I  have  a  little  seating  section 
 here  that's  going  to  be  perfect  for  for 
 when  this  goes  into  full  bloom.  New 
 little  mushrooms.  I  just  think  they're 
 the  cutest  thing  ever.  You  guys,  I  will 
 put  a  link  to  this  store  where  I  found 
 these.  If  you  guys  are  local,  you  have 
 to  check  them  out.  They're  just  so 
 fabulous  to  work  with.  This  is  not 
 sponsored  or  anything,  but  I  love 
 plugging,  you  know,  local  companies 
 where  you  can  because,  you  know,  got  to 
 support  our  locals,  right?  All right. 
 So,  this  is  my  spot  right  back  here. 
 This  is  going  to  be  in  the  future,  I 
 think,  going  to  be  another  secret  garden 
 now  that  things  have  really  grown  up. 
 This  is  our  property  line  here.  So,  we 
 put  up  a  Kucia  hedge  right  on  the 
 property  line.  And  then  this  spot  right 
 where  I'm  standing  is  was  plantings.  And 
 then  I  found  out  that  I  gosh,  where  am  I 
 going to  put  all  these  clippings?  So,  I 
 was  constantly  fighting  with  them  in  the 
 front  by  the  road,  putting  them  in  the 
 back  of  the  truck,  whatnot.  They're 
 always  in  the  way.  So,  we  cleared  out  a 
 section  back  here  and  kept  it  nice  and 
 clean.  This  has  always  been  a  little  bit 
 of  an  alleyway  for  trimming  the  backside 
 of  my  burm,  but  now  it  really  just 
 serves  as  a  perfect  spot  for  all  of  that 
 debris.  We  leave  it  all  here,  piled  up 
 weekly.  They  come  pick  it  up  and  voila, 
 no  one's  the  wiser.  You  can  see  that  I 
 have  a  little  collection  over  there  of 
 some  debris  that  fell  from  the  front 
 section.  Now  that  things  have  really 
 grown  up,  we've  cleared  some  things  out 
 from  back  here.  I  totally  see  this  as  my 
 little  secret  jungle  walkway.  I'm  really 
 thinking  about  incorporating  a  little 
 bit  of  stone,  maybe  some  stepping 
 stones,  maybe  a  little  bit  of  lower 
 plant  material  to  the  left  side  of  the 
 walkway  and  creating  just  a  little  bit 
 of  a  secret  garden  between  the  two 
 spaces.  So,  this  is  the  back  side  of  my 
 buffer.  It  has  now  gotten  to  the  point 
 where  things  have  grown  up  enough  to  see 
 that  happening,  to  see  that  actually 
 come  to  fruition.  So,  I  do  think  that 
 it's  time  to  plant  phase  30.  So,  then 
 this  will  be  a  brand  new  planting  as  a 
 cool  meandering  secret  little  walkway 
 path  kind  of  coming  through  this  space. 
 So,  I  think  that's  going  to  be  cool. 
 But,  but  that'll  be  in  an  upcoming 
 video.  However,  that  being  said,  I'll 
 also  make  sure  to  keep  a  little  spot  for 
 my  debris.  So,  I  always  have  that  little 
 hidden  away,  keeping  everything  nice  and 
 tucked  and  tidy  and  clean  spot  for  all 
 of  my  tree  debris.  So,  for  the  second 
 thing  that  I  would  say  that  I  regret  in 
 my  garden  is  not  doing  this  sooner.  So, 
 you  guys  know  from  earlier  videos  from 
 the  past  years  that  I  had  pretty  much 
 grass  in  this  backyard  space.  Obviously, 
 we  always  had  the  big  buffer  and  we've 
 added  to  it  over  the  years.  The  grass 
 was  one  of  those  things  that  as  a 
 landscaper  I  could  not  get  to  grow.  It 
 would  have  its  good  days.  It  would  have 
 its  bad  days,  but  a  lot  of  the  times  it 
 just  had  so  much  issues  with  kind  of 
 staying  mucky  and  muddy  and  turning  into 
 weeds  and  battling  fungus.  You  know,  we 
 have  some  filtered  light  here  and  we  get 
 some  rainfall.  And  of  course,  it  is  a 
 lower  section  of  my  garden.  Water  did 
 flow  to  this  area.  So  now  when  I  see 
 clients  who  have  a  very  similar 
 situation  and  their  plan  is  for  the 
 future  to  have  their  backyard  pretty 
 much  a  garden,  I  ask  them,  "Do  you  think 
 that  you  might  utilize  using  stone 
 versus  grass  as  your  main  base,  your 
 main  walkway?"  And  fortunately,  a  lot  of 
 them  are  like,  "Yeah,  I  kind  of  like 
 that  idea."  I  did  not  initially.  I  was 
 not  sure  if  I  was  comfortable  with 
 having  no  grass  at  all  in  the  backyard. 
 I  waited  and  tried  sawing  here  multiple 
 times  before  that  was  the  case.  If  I 
 were  to  go  back  in  time,  it  would  be 
 totally  to  take  out  the  grass  day  one 
 and  create  a  nice  pathway.  This  rock 
 backyard  along  this  swale  area  has  been 
 clean,  has  been  easy  to  maintain,  has 
 been  a  just  a  no  fuss,  no  mus  kind  of 
 situation.  It  has  been  ideal.  I  wish  I 
 would  have  done  that  from  the  very 
 beginning  instead  of  wasting  thousands 
 on  resolding  year  after  year  several 
 several  times  because  this  has  been 
 ideal.  also  kind  of  adds  a  little  bit  of 
 whimsy  to  the  garden.  I  love  the  fact 
 that  I  have  a  nice  little  meandering 
 pathway.  In  the  future,  as  my  budget 
 allows,  I  think  I'm  going  to  create  some 
 maybe  flag  stone  leading  through  the 
 middle  of  it  to  really  kind  of  create 
 that  and  incorporate  maybe  some  boulders 
 a  little  further  out  to  maybe  narrow 
 that  pathway  to  kind  of  make  it,  you 
 know,  a  little  bit  more  intimate.  But 
 that's  going  to  come  over  time.  And 
 that's  what's  great  about  landscaping  is 
 these  things  grow.  Now,  if  you  guys  are 
 in  a  situation  where  I  was  years  ago  and 
 you're  starting  off,  consider  doing  a 
 nice  gravel  pathway,  letting  your 
 landscaping  encroach  right  into  that 
 space,  and  then  just  having  to  not  worry 
 about  any  kind  of  fuss.  On  average,  you 
 get  about  100  square  ft  per  yard  when  it 
 comes  to  gravel  or  stone.  And  so,  if  you 
 price  that  out,  you  kind  of  have  a 
 better  idea  of  how  much  that's  going  to 
 cost  and  how  much  of  that  will  be  a 
 savings  or  not  a  savings  for  you  long 
 term  with  your  maintenance  company.  But 
 for  me,  it  has  definitely  been  a  savings 
 because  I've  again  resolded  this  yard 
 countless  times  trying  to  make  it  a  nice 
 healthy  green  grass  backyard,  whatever 
 that  is  in  Florida.  So,  that  would  be 
 something  that  was  definitely  a  fail  on 
 my  part.  I've  come  to  realize  I  wish  I 
 would  have  done  a  lot  sooner. 
 All right,  you  guys.  So,  for  the  next 
 thing  that  that  I  think  I  regret,  this 
 one's  kind  of  a  tricky  one.  So,  I  have 
 always  wanted  privacy  in  my  yard,  as  you 
 guys  can  tell  from  the  backyard. 
 However,  the  front  yard  came  years 
 later.  I  enjoy  sitting  by  my  fish  pond. 
 I  enjoy  having  my  coffee  in  the  morning. 
 Enjoy  walking  through  my  garden  and 
 feeling  like  a  resort  or  feeling  like 
 it's  a  botanical  garden.  I  walk  through. 
 That's  why  I  have  all  these  pathways 
 that  lead  me  throughout  the  whole  space 
 because  that's  what  I  want  to  feel  like 
 when  I'm  in  my  own  space.  I  don't  want 
 to  always  have  to  take  a  vacation  to 
 feel  like  I'm  on  vacation.  I  enjoy  my 
 neighbors,  but  I  kind  of  wanted  a  little 
 setback,  a  little  bit  of  privacy  in  my 
 own  space.  And  I  had  concerns  about 
 doing  that  because  I  am  not  in  some  big 
 mansion  on  an  estate  somewhere.  This  is 
 typically  a  very  suburban  yard.  My 
 neighbors  have  your  typical  front  floor 
 yard,  backyard.  It's  just  your  typical 
 neighborhood.  And  so  creating  a  bordered 
 fence  of  any  kind  was  kind  of  a  not 
 really  approved  thing  for  my  HOA.  You 
 know,  having  a  big  walled  fence  was  not, 
 you  know,  I  can  see  why  that  wouldn't  be 
 appealing.  When  I  mentioned  to  them  I 
 was  thinking  about  doing  a  Kousia  wall, 
 kind  of  encompassing  my  front  yard  space 
 to  make  it  more  private,  adding  a  couple 
 gates  and  then  kind  of  softening  it  with 
 a  hedge,  they  were  like,  "Okay,  we're 
 going  to  work  with  you."  Cuz  you 
 apparently  know  landscape.  I  was  a 
 little  bit  concerned  about  doing  that. 
 So,  I  was  very  hesitant.  So,  I  did  not 
 do  that  for  years,  even  though  I  wanted 
 to  do  it  right  away.  Now  that  we've  done 
 it,  it  has  been  such  a  blessing.  It  is 
 probably  my  favorite  thing  in  my  whole 
 yard.  We  have  entertained  in  this  space. 
 We've  pitched  to  tents  out  here.  We  have 
 had  dinner  parties  out  here  on  this 
 front  little  slice  of  our  grass  area.  We 
 have  had  fire  pits  with  family  and  just 
 kind  of  enjoy.  This  has  been  such  a 
 great  spot  because  I  feel  like  it's  so 
 private.  The  hedge  has  solar  lights  that 
 run  through  it  at  night.  So,  it  feels 
 just  so  whimsical.  It  really  does  bring 
 together  what  the  backyard  does.  Now, 
 the  front  yard  does  that,  too.  And  I 
 really  feel  like  that  gave  me  the 
 privacy  that  I  needed.  and  I  was  a 
 little  bit  concerned  about  being  able  to 
 do  that  in  what's  typically  a  pretty 
 small  ordinary  house.  So,  those  of  you 
 guys  who  are  thinking  about  doing  that, 
 but  you're,  you  know,  you're  not  in  a 
 big  estate  or  you're  not  in  a  mansion, 
 hopefully  this  serves  as  a  okay  to  you 
 guys.  This  is  something  that  I've  done 
 and  I  love.  Do  not  regret  it  for  one 
 second.  And  not  only  that,  I  encourage 
 it  to  my  clients.  I'm  like,  if  you  guys 
 you're  garden  people,  you're  my  people. 
 You  want  to  be  surrounded  by  your 
 tropical  landscape  and  you  want  to  use 
 every  bit  of  square  footage  of  your 
 yard.  Do  that  because  this  becomes  a 
 wall  for  you  to  enjoy.  Then  you  can 
 landscape  in  front  of  it  and  landscape 
 behind  it  for  your  neighbors  and  to  the 
 inside  of  it  for  yourself.  And  it  serves 
 such  dual  duty.  It's  just  such  an  ideal 
 thing  to  do.  We  have  limitations.  Right 
 where  I'm  standing  is  my  septic  tank.  So 
 there  was  no  planting  of  any  kind  that 
 can  be  done  here.  So  you'll  notice  that 
 I  put  my  favorite  trees  which  are 
 buganveillia  trees.  I  had  to  put  them  in 
 pots  mainly  because  of  the  septic  tank. 
 And  then  secondly,  I  really  don't  like 
 putting  bugilia  trees  in  the  ground 
 because  they  can  be  crazy  as  a  lot  of 
 you  flidians  know  it.  They  can,  you 
 know,  just  kind  of  go  to  town.  But  in  a 
 pot,  they're  controlled,  they're 
 condensed,  and  they  bloom  so  much  more 
 like  this.  I  hate  that  I'm  sharing  this 
 video  today  with  you  guys.  We  literally 
 just  trimmed  the  Kucia  hedge  and  the 
 buganillas  yesterday.  But  I  know  you 
 guys  as  gardeners  can  see  right  through 
 that.  You  know  that  June  is  the  time 
 period  where  everything  gets  that  really 
 heavy,  ugly  cut  back  and  then  it's 
 beautiful  for  the  rest  of  the  summer.  So 
 definitely  if  you're  thinking  about 
 creating  a  walled  privacy  buffer  for 
 yourself  and  you  can  only  use  something 
 like  a  hedge,  you  might  not  be  able  to 
 use  tons  and  tons  of  layers  to  create 
 that  because  of  the  space  that  you're 
 working  with.  Maybe  you  too  have  a 
 septic  tank.  Maybe  your  neighborhood 
 doesn't  allow  a  bunch  of  palms  and  trees 
 to  the  front  of  the  house.  Maybe  you 
 want  more  of  a  clean  line  landscape  like 
 you  see  here.  Those  are  great  reasons  to 
 incorporate  a  walled  hedge  like  this. 
 Kucia  is  my  favorite.  My  second  favorite 
 is  pod  carpus.  It's  what  I  have  between 
 my  two  gates  because  it  can  stay  super 
 super  narrow.  Um  it  takes  a  little  while 
 for  them  to  get  established  unlike  the 
 Kousia.  But  once  they  become 
 established,  they  turn  into  that  green 
 dark  dark  green  wall.  And  I've  done  two 
 gates  on  either  side  of  that  to  really 
 kind  of  help  create  that,  you  know,  very 
 estatelike  feel  to  what  is  technically  a 
 small  entrance  way  to  my  home. 
 So,  we're  going  to  walk  out  quickly. 
 So,  we're  now  outside  on  my  driveway 
 area.  This  is  what  my  neighbors  see. 
 It's  also  Bryce.  I'm  sure  my  neighbors 
 wouldn't  mind  if  you  got  kind  of  got  a 
 pan  of  what  the  typical  homes  look  like 
 in  my  little  suburban  single  street 
 community.  We  are  a  modest  home  in 
 Bureau  Beach  and  this  is  the  front  of 
 that  space.  I  kept  it  clean.  I  kept  it 
 tidy.  I  kept  it  neat.  Of  course,  it's  a 
 little  neater  than  normal  because  again, 
 yesterday  everything  got  a  severe 
 haircut,  but  you  can  see  how  this  wall 
 kind  of  curves  in  and  out.  So,  it's  not 
 exactly  straight.  I  tried  to  work  with 
 what  I  had  to  work  with  to  make  it  look 
 attractive  from  the  inside.  There's  some 
 curvature  leaning  in  and  leaning  out. 
 And  I  did  little  pop  outs  of  key 
 features.  This  is  my  son's  favorite 
 plant,  which  is  the  blue  agave.  I  love 
 this  triple  Christmas  palm.  It's  just 
 been  so  such  a  stature  palm  in  the 
 garden.  And  so  it's  the  centerpiece  to 
 the  wall  and  just  kind  of  offers  a 
 little  bit  of  division  with  some  small 
 plantings  underneath.  And  of  course, 
 privacy  above  all.  It's  exactly  when 
 we're  inside  there,  you  do  not  see  a  car 
 unless  it  is  UPS  or  FedEx.  You  do  not 
 see  anything  beyond  that  point,  which  is 
 so  nice  because  I  can  go  outside  in  my 
 pajamas,  you  know,  a  cup  of  coffee  and 
 not  have  to  worry  about  waving  to  every 
 single  neighbor  that  comes  through 
 walking  their  dog.  I  swear  that  sounds 
 terrible,  but  I  I  don't  know.  I  just 
 enjoy  my  Saturdays  until  I'm  ready  to 
 engage.  A  lot  of  people  are  that  way,  so 
 I'm  hoping  you  guys  are  that  way,  too. 
 No  judgment.  All  right,  you  guys.  So, 
 we're  going  to  jump  into  the  last  tip. 
 So,  you  guys,  last  but  definitely  not 
 least,  is  irrigation.  So,  I  know  that 
 irrigation  is  obviously  an  important 
 part  to  a  Florida  landscape.  We 
 definitely  need  the  water.  It  keeps  the 
 plants  lush  and  thick  and  shiny,  and 
 it's  an  ideal  thing  to  incorporate  into 
 every  garden.  So,  I  ask  my  clients  to 
 make  sure  that's  a  priority  when  we're 
 doing  our  planting  and  planning  phases 
 that  we  are  incorporating  irrigation  to 
 make  that  happen.  However,  in  my  own 
 garden  years  and  years  and  years  ago,  I 
 did  an  initial  irrigation  system  like, 
 you  know,  traditional.  It's  going to  be 
 a  back  buffer.  So  I  did  some  heads  that 
 shot  out  towards  the  buffer  and  I 
 thought  voila  that  was  going  to  be  good. 
 Considering  that  I  had  a  couple  phases 
 in  mind.  The  original  plan  was  about 
 three  phases  and  we  were  done  and  that 
 was  I  don't know  15  16  years  ago.  We  are 
 now  probably  at  phase  if  I  were  to  count 
 10  12  somewhere  along  that  where  we've 
 added  incorporated  and  I  don't  even  see 
 that  changing  even  in  the  future.  So  if 
 you  guys  kind  of  have  a  general  plan  in 
 mind,  if  you  see  my  backyard  garden  and 
 it  kind  of  just  appeals  to  you,  you 
 think,  you  know,  over  time  I  would  like 
 to  create  that.  I  would  like  to  have 
 layers  and  layers  leaning  all  the  way 
 from  maybe,  you  know,  a  few  foot  from  my 
 foundation  out  to  the  rear  side  of  my 
 property.  Then  allocate  for  that  now.  It 
 is  an  ideal  time  to  do  that  before  all 
 of  this  vegetation  is  in  place.  And  if 
 you're  going  to  do  that,  definitely  do 
 that  on  stand  pipe.  A  lot  of  typical 
 irrigation  is  set  with  like  little  small 
 heads.  They  go  all  the  way  from  the  4  in 
 to  the  6  in  to  the  12in  heads.  Usually 
 the  highest  of  them  all,  and  that's 
 originally  what  I  had.  However,  if  you 
 know  that  you're  going  to  do  a  layered 
 jungle  kind  of  garden,  go  ahead  and  get 
 the  large  fixed  stand  pipes  like  I  have 
 here.  So,  as  you  can  see,  I  have  6ft 
 stand  pipes.  They're  adjustable  pipes. 
 They're  pretty  much  PVC.  We  painted  them 
 green  when  we  put  them  in  and  then  put 
 standard  um  pop-up  nozzles  on  there.  So, 
 those  are  your  normal  typical  nozzles  on 
 those  particular  standup  pipes.  And  then 
 I  have  a  different  variety  in  two  other 
 places  that  coordinate  really,  really 
 well  and  complement  the  type  of 
 irrigation  that  I  need  for  my  backyard 
 space.  Having  the  standup  pipes  do  such 
 a  great  job.  Having  them  in  the  middle 
 of  the  bed  where  we  had  to  trench  after 
 the  fact  would  have  been  ideal  if  I  had 
 put  them  in  the  appropriate  spots  when  I 
 originally  planned  the  landscaping. 
 However,  I  wasn't  quite  sure  I  was  going 
 to  go  as  heavy  as  I  did.  So,  even  after 
 the  thought,  it  still  served  as  ideal. 
 It  would  have  saved  me  some  serious 
 money  if  I  done  it  right  from  the 
 beginning.  And  so,  that's  what  I  try  to 
 do  for  my  clients  now.  I  try  to  say, 
 "Okay,  if  this  is  phase  one,  what  does 
 phase  five  look  like?  Let's  plan  for 
 this  or  at least  lay  the  pipeline  for 
 it."  and  then  maybe  put  some  pop-up 
 heads  or  work  towards  that  as  we  go  so 
 we're  not  doing  things  twice.  Big  part 
 of  the  reason  why  I  do  that  is  because  I 
 have  done  that  myself  in  my  own  garden. 
 So  to  try  to  avoid  expense  for  my 
 clients,  we  make  sure  to  incorporate 
 that  when  we're  doing  our  plans.  The 
 next  set  of  piping  that  I  use  is  what's 
 here  in  the  landscape  beds.  And  I'm 
 going  to  turn  those  on  so  you  guys  can 
 kind  of  see  them  and  I'll  point  out  what 
 type  of  heads  they  are  so  that  way  you 
 guys  can  maybe  recommend  them  to  your 
 irrigation  guy.  So  these  here,  I  hope 
 you  can  see  that  in  the  picture.  These 
 are  the  12in  pop-up  spray.  So  they  go 
 flush  all  the  way  to  the  ground.  Spray 
 out,  come  up  12  in,  really  give  a  nice 
 fan.  Now,  this  guy  right  here  will  cover 
 about  a  12t  approximal  half  moon  shape 
 here.  So  it'll  go  from  this  corner  to 
 this  corner.  Spray  out  a  good  12t.  And  I 
 bet  if  I  were  to  measure  it  exactly,  it 
 looks  to  me  more  like  15.  but  really 
 does  get  a  nice  big  bit  of  coverage  in 
 this  whole  area  where  it  shoots  along 
 here  and  up  and  over.  I  love  this 
 irrigation  head,  but  not  as  much  as  the 
 one  I'm  going  to  show  you  next. 
 All right,  you  guys.  So,  this  mama  jama 
 right  here  is  an  MP  rotor.  It  is  a  water 
 saver  head.  Now,  it  does  it  sounds  like 
 a  water  saver  head,  but  it  does  take 
 some  pressure  to  do  it.  That's  why  I 
 only  have  a  few  of  these  in  the  garden. 
 But  if  you've  got  a  spot  where  you  need 
 mass  coverage,  pull  this  guy  back  and 
 really  let  him  fan  out.  I  mean,  look  how 
 far  he  sprays  into  the  bed.  Really 
 pushes  out  water,  really  puts  out  big 
 thick  jets  along  here.  And  it's  called 
 an  MP  rotor  head.  And  it  just 
 continuously  does  this  all  the  way 
 through.  The  adjustment  will  determine 
 how  far  it  goes  one  way  or  the  other. 
 It's  golden  when  it  comes  to  really 
 getting  a  lot  of  coverage  in  my  heads. 
 And  I  have  this  here  and  I  have  it  on 
 several  of  my  stand  pipes  that  I  need  to 
 really  push  out  some  significant  water. 
 But  MP  rotor  heads,  if  your  irrigation 
 guy  says  you  have  enough  pressure  to  use 
 that  in  your  garden,  go  that  route. 
 There  are  just  game  changers.  I  wish  I 
 could  use  them  for  my  entire 
 landscaping,  but  I  have  an  old  well  and 
 old  system,  so  I'm  working  with  what  I 
 got  to  work  with.  But  ideal.  I  love  the 
 water  they  push  out.  I  would  have  to 
 water  a  little  bit  less  if  I  had  these 
 all  through  my  garden.  And  so  I  put  them 
 in  the  most  appropriate  places.  Just 
 quick  tip  on  that.  If  you've  got  an  area 
 that  really  like  you  have a  lot  of 
 Sanchez  or  Java  whites  or  blaze  copper 
 leaf  things  that  really  like  a  little 
 bit  more  water  than  others,  put  these 
 kind  of  heads  in  that  particular  spot 
 because  the  other  section  of  the  garden 
 like  buganilas  and  things  that  oleanders 
 things  that  don't  need  that  much  water, 
 you  can  put  regular  heads  on  those  these 
 bigger  heads  on  the  the  water  loving 
 plants  and  voila,  you've  got  a  system 
 that's  really  going  to  operate  perfectly 
 because  20  minutes  equally  on  something 
 like  this  versus  something  like  your 
 traditional  heads  is  going  to  be  a 
 really  really  good  balance  on  drought 
 tolerant  versus  tropical  plant 
 groupings.  I  hope  that  makes  sense.  So 
 that's  definitely  something  I  wish  we 
 would  have  started  right  from  the 
 get-go.  Would  have  saved  us  a  lot  of 
 effort,  a  lot  of  time,  and  a  lot  of 
 digging  had  we  just  done  that  right  off 
 the  bat.  But  we  did  it  a  few  years 
 later.  Still  serves  as  a  beautiful 
 garden.  But,  you  know,  hopefully  you 
 guys  who  are  in  the  beginning  stages  of 
 things,  this  is  really  something  that's 
 going  to  help  you  right  off  the  bat. 
 So,  I  hope  this  video  does  what  it's 
 supposed  to  do,  which  is  save  you  guys 
 just  a  little  bit  of  time  and  money  and 
 long-term  effort  in  your  garden  and,  you 
 know,  you  don't  make  some  of  the 
 mistakes  that  I've  made  over  the  years. 
 I  try  to  tell  all  of  my  clients  that, 
 but  I  love  this  channel  because  I'm 
 really  able  to  send  that  to  the  masses, 
 those  of  you  guys  who  are  diying  it  and 
 making  a  lot  of  the  same  mistakes  that 
 I'm  making  through  that  I  have  made  in 
 the  past  that  you  might  be  making  or 
 future  making  into  your  garden.  So,  I 
 hope  this  video  becomes  useful  and  it's 
 something  that  you  can  look  back  on  and 
 say,  "Hey,  I'm  going  to  make,  you  know, 
 address  this  situation  now."  So,  if  you 
 guys  enjoyed  today's  video,  then  please 
 check  out  last  week's  video.  It  was 
 about  a  updated  garden  tour  on  a 
 beautiful,  originally  blank  slated 
 backyard  that  is  now  a  tropical  paradise 
 of  its  own.  It  is  full  of  fun  plants  and 
 trees  that  are  tried  and  true  and  tough 
 to  Florida  landscape.  So,  see  you  guys 
 in  the  very  next  garden  tour.  Take  care.

---

 Well,  hello  gardeners.  Welcome  back. 
 Today  we  are  in  Fort  Pierce,  Florida, 
 zone  10A.  And  I  cannot  wait  to  share 
 this  beautiful  garden  of  tried  and 
 trueue  Florida  plants  and  trees  that  are 
 just  not  only  stunning,  but  are  tough 
 and  can  handle  our  environment.  So, 
 we're  going  to  talk  about  the  individual 
 plants  and  trees.  We're  going  to  talk 
 about  the  combination  of  how  things  come 
 together.  And  that  way,  if  you  guys  are 
 looking  to  create  something  like  this 
 into  your  own  space,  you're  going  to 
 have  a  great  shopping  list  of  really, 
 really,  really  nice  plant  material  to 
 really  work  with  in  your  own  particular 
 space.  We  were  here  about  8,  nine  months 
 ago,  few  months  after  the  original 
 planting  and  now  we're  about  a  year  in 
 from  planting.  So,  you  guys  get  to  see 
 what  this  has  transformed  into  a  year 
 later.  Now,  we've  had  some  storm  damage. 
 Those  of  you  guys  who  are  from  our  area 
 know  that  we  had  those  two  hurricanes 
 that  came  through  and  all  that  that 
 happened  right  after  installation 
 unfortunately.  So,  there's  some  tree 
 damage  that  got  hit,  but  overall  things 
 have  come  out  beautifully  and  are  in 
 full  recovery.  So,  yeah,  let's  kind  of 
 jump  right  into  this  garden  and  I  cannot 
 wait  to  share  these  things  with  you. 
 Just  before  we  get  started,  you  guys,  if 
 this  is  your  kind  of  vibe,  if  this  is 
 what  you  like  to  see,  then  like  and 
 subscribe,  hit  that  notification  bell. 
 We  post  every  single  weekend  and  we  will 
 show  up  in  your  feed  if  you  do  that.  For 
 those  of  you  guys  who  are  new  to  my 
 channel,  I  am  a  landscape  designer  of 
 over  25  years.  These  are  the  kind  of 
 projects  that  we  do.  We  create,  you 
 know,  backyard  resorts  for  clients.  We, 
 you  know,  redefine  the  front  yard 
 gardening.  We  really,  really  enjoy  being 
 out  into  the  landscapes  every  single 
 day.  We  have  our  personal  in-house 
 installation  team  that  we  work  with.  We 
 also  have  design  only  services  for  all 
 of  you  all  outside  that  service  area,  as 
 well  as  virtual  consults  for  you  guys 
 way  outside  that  service  area.  contact 
 us  if  this  something  you're  looking  for. 
 But  for  right  now,  let's  jump  right  into 
 this  video. 
 All right,  you  guys.  So,  just  giving  you 
 a  point  of  reference.  As  my  clients  are 
 entering  their  backyard  space,  we 
 redefined  this  section  with  a  nice  brand 
 new  walkway.  So,  this  is  a  lovely 
 walkway  leading  into  the  garden  area, 
 which  I  just  takes  my  breath  away  every 
 time  I  see  it.  I  absolutely  just  love 
 coming  around  this  corner  as  I  check 
 into  Kirby  and  Cathy's  garden.  About 
 eight  or  nine  months  ago,  it  was  pretty 
 well  established  by  that  point,  but  now 
 a  year  in,  you  can  really  see  the  layers 
 really  come  together,  how  everything  is 
 just  kind  of  giving  you  that  bright  pop 
 of  color,  the  brights  and  the  darks 
 mixed  in.  So,  for  those  of  you  guys  who 
 have  shade  plant  or  shade  areas,  this  is 
 a  nice  collection  of  shade  plant 
 groupings.  So,  as  you  can  see,  they  had 
 an  existing  bottle  brush  tree.  This  is  a 
 weeping  bottle  brush.  These  guys  get 
 nice  and  broad  and  big.  They've  lost  a 
 couple  trunks  over  the  years,  but 
 overall  it  offers  a  good  bit  of 
 protection  on  this  side  of  the  property. 
 And  the  plant  groupings  allowed  us  to 
 get  completely  different  than  the  mids, 
 mid  central  area  of  the  garden.  So,  I 
 love  these.  We  have  flanked  the  two 
 corner  sections  with  ground  orchids.  I 
 just  love  the  way  they  look.  They  bloom 
 in  the  winter.  They  bloom  in  the  summer. 
 Nobody  tells  them  when  to  bloom.  They 
 just  bloom  when  they  want  to.  So,  I 
 think  they're  absolutely  stunning  in 
 this  little  pocket  here.  And  then  right 
 to  the  rear  section  here,  we  have  the 
 dwarf  alicacious.  And  they're  almost,  I 
 would  say,  full  grown  at  this  point.  And 
 really  just  kind  of  offering  that  big 
 pop  of  just  that  big  giant  leaf.  So, 
 they're  going  to  be  a  gorgeous  4ft 
 specimen  as  the  midpoint  here.  And  then 
 right  to  the  back  are  our  java  whites. 
 Now,  look  at  the  leaf,  Bryce.  Look  at 
 the  leaf,  you  guys,  on  these  here.  I 
 just  love  how  every  leaf  is  a  little  bit 
 different.  It  is  just  so  fun.  It's  the 
 size  of  my  hand  or  bigger.  Actually, 
 bigger.  Just  so  gorgeous.  Some  people 
 nickname  these  guys  a  spotlight  plant 
 because  in  a  dark  area  cuz  they  can 
 handle  set  shady  conditions,  they  are 
 like  a  bright  white  spotlight  in  a 
 space.  Those  of  you  guys  who  are  looking 
 for  some  moon  garden  plants,  I  know  when 
 they're  newly  planted,  you  don't  kind  of 
 pick  up  on  how  bright  this  leaf  is 
 because  it  takes  time  for  it  to  really 
 flush  out  and  grow  in.  Approximately  a 
 year,  as  you  can  see,  but  it  is  the 
 perfect  brightness  in  a  dark  spot.  So, 
 don't  be  afraid  to  use  it.  There  is  a 
 little  bit  of  a  yellow  tone,  but 
 definitely  some  white  tones  in  it,  too. 
 There  is  a  neighboring  house  here.  So, 
 we're  going  to  let  these  guys  get  about 
 5,  six  foot  tall  over  top  of  this  wall. 
 So,  this  will  be  a  big  backdrop.  Then  it 
 tears  down  to  the  forefoot  of  the  dwarf 
 alicacius.  And  then  down  to  the  foot  and 
 a  half  of  the  ground  orchids.  And  then 
 we  popped  right  in  the  middle  because 
 this  is  facing  their  seeding  section  a 
 little  clustering  of  Rojo  Congos.  Some 
 people  are  scared  to  put  this  big  leaf 
 against  this  big  leaf.  But  you  guys, 
 because  the  contrast  in  leaf  color,  I 
 think  it's  a  gorgeous  look.  And  they're 
 never  going  to  compete  with  the  height 
 of  these  guys.  These  guys  are  always 
 going  to  stay  in  that  middle  range  of  3 
 foot.  These  guys  will  get  four  4  and 
 1/2t  to  the  middle  and  then  about  5  to 
 6t  to  the  back.  So  you  can  see  that 
 natural  layering  and  then  of  course  the 
 lower  ground  cover  of  the  ground  orchids 
 here.  Now  right  to  the  front  we  have 
 just  a  little  dollop,  just  a  little 
 swath  of  the  burl  marks  because  you  know 
 I  love  how  they  just  mound  over  into  a 
 bed.  To  me  they're  a  tropical  hedge. 
 They  really  do  a  good  job  of  keeping  a 
 nice  divided  line.  They  grow  into  about 
 two  and  a  half  foot.  That's  their  ideal 
 size.  You  can  keep  them  shorter  if  you 
 like,  but  that's  a  perfect  size  to  keep 
 them.  And  they  kind  of  make  a  nice 
 tropical  hedge  with  these  guys.  They 
 kind  of  hold  all  the  crazy  to  the  back. 
 And  they're  a  little  crazy  themselves, 
 so  they're  not  too  formal  fitting,  but 
 they  can  handle  sun.  They  can  handle  uh 
 shade.  They  do  need  protection  from  the 
 late  afternoon  sun.  That's  the  only  time 
 that  it  can  get  a  little  bit  burnt.  But 
 overall,  they  can  handle  quite  a  bit  of 
 sun  cover.  So,  they're  always  going  to 
 be  something  you  want  to  put  towards  the 
 edge  of  the  bed  because  most  of  the  time 
 that's  where  the  sun  hits  the  most.  So, 
 um,  so  they're  a  perfect  little  lower 
 ground  cover  for  that.  All right.  So, 
 you  guys  can  see  how  we  finished  off.  We 
 kind  of  started  wrapping  the  bed  around. 
 You'll  notice  from  a  lot  of  my  landscape 
 designs,  if  at  all  possible,  I  try  to 
 take  and  go  to  the  extent  of  the 
 property  line  and  work  my  way  forward 
 from  there,  leaving  as  much  grass  space 
 as  we  can  between  that  and  the  next 
 plant  grouping,  just  because  it  makes 
 the  yard  feel  bigger.  The  last  thing  I 
 want  to  do  is  kind  of  create,  you  know, 
 a  wall  structure  around  your  space 
 that's  just  too  heavy.  I  didn't  want 
 them  to  lose  the  size  of  this  backyard. 
 I  wanted  it  to  always  be  grand.  But 
 believe  it  or  not,  kind  of  bringing  in 
 some  soft  walls  on  the  outside  where 
 it's  just  more  of  a  soft  plant  grouping 
 does  a  great  job  of  still  feeling  like 
 everything  is  just  nice  and  big.  You  can 
 see  we  took  out  about  eight  or  nine  foot 
 of  bed  space,  but  we  didn't  come  into 
 all  of  this  open  grass  space.  They 
 really  have  plenty  of  yard  to  work  with 
 here.  And  it's  kind  of  that  way  all  the 
 way  around.  And  then  we  decided  to  do  a 
 humdinger  and  bring  out  a  middle  section 
 right  out  of  their  main  doorway  area  so 
 they  can  see  the  gorgeous  garden  right 
 from  the  inside  of  their  house  and  kind 
 of  put  a  divider  right  in  the  middle 
 with  some  beautiful  plant  islands  just 
 around  that  new  pergola  just  to  kind  of 
 create  an  outdoor  seating  section.  So 
 that's  what  I  love  about  this  garden.  I 
 love  that  we  were  able  to  do  that.  And  I 
 know  not  all  of  us  have  the  benefit  of 
 having  a  goodsized  backyard  space.  But 
 when  I  get  that  creative  juices  start 
 get  going  because  I'm  like,  "Okay,  we 
 could  do  this  and  we  could  do  that  and 
 still  leave  enough  room  for  for  yard  and 
 grass."  And  that's  that  was  kind  of  the 
 goal  here.  So  you  guys  will  have  to  let 
 me  know  if  you  you  think  that  we  made 
 that  happen.  On  this  side  again,  we  had 
 the  job  of  whites,  the  big  leaf  color 
 here.  Now,  what  I  find  so  fascinating 
 about  this  plant  is  its  versatility.  We 
 are  now  in  full  sun  over  here  where  on 
 the  other  side  where  those  copper  leaves 
 were  was  pretty  much  shade  with  a  little 
 filtered  light  coming  through.  This  is  a 
 heavier  sunbase.  Now,  this  plant  is 
 doing  just  fine  in  that  same  particular 
 spot.  Maybe  has  a  little  bit  more 
 brightness  to  the  leaf.  More  of  the 
 yellow  tones  you're  going  to  see  when  it 
 has  full  sun  versus  the  shady  areas 
 where  you  get  more  shade.  And  then  as  a 
 backdrop,  we  chose  the  Louisiana  red 
 copper  leaves  because  when  you've  got 
 sun,  you  guys,  and  you  love  variegated 
 leaf,  these  Louisiana  reds  do  a 
 beautiful  job  of  offering  you  a  hot  pink 
 burgundy  kind  of  variegation  in  a  big 
 giant  leaf.  I  mean,  look  at  those  that 
 leaf  grouping  right  there  where  that  sun 
 hits  Bryce.  You  just  see  it's  just  a 
 super  happy  plant. 
 Now,  the  negative  to  those  plants  would 
 be  that  the  bottom  two  foot  are  usually 
 pretty  bare.  all  of  their  energy,  the 
 front  and  the  back  and  the  top  of  the 
 planting.  So  the  top  four  feet  or  five 
 feet  of  this  plant  is  absolutely 
 stunning,  but  you  do  need  a  skirt 
 planting  to  kind  of  cover  up  that  lower 
 section  that  you  know  may  not  be  so 
 appealing.  So  these  guys  are  going  to  do 
 a  great  job  of  that  at  5T.  This  is  a 
 particular  spot  they  did  want  to  have 
 some  privacy  since  the  neighbors  patio 
 section  is  over  in  that  area.  So  having 
 a  nice  colorful  wall  here  of  these  about 
 8  or  9  ft  is  going  to  be  gorgeous.  So 
 they're  doing  just  that  job  right  there. 
 So  you  guys  will  have  to  let  me  know 
 what  your  thoughts  are  on  it.  Over  here, 
 this  was  an  existing  landscape  right 
 here.  This  was  one  thing  that  was  here. 
 This  is  a  watermelon  pink  crepe  myrtle. 
 They  had  some  lovely  plumbago  here.  So 
 we  kept  it.  It  looked  great.  We  worked 
 with  it  within  the  garden.  All  we  did 
 was  take  the  two  side  sections  and 
 incorporate  it  into  this  island.  So  we 
 have  a  full  wraparound  island  along  the 
 wall  here.  In  this  little  section  here, 
 we  have  a  king  sego.  This  is  kind  of  our 
 anchor  point.  This  is  kind  of  where  we 
 want  the  bed  to  start  now  to  drop  down 
 before  it  goes  back  up.  When  you're 
 looking  at  your  space,  pay  attention  to 
 that  because  I  think  that's  what  makes 
 the  landscaping  look  really  interesting. 
 If  you  can  have  a  lot  of  layered 
 heights,  then  it  drops  down  into 
 something  very  easy  to  work  with,  more 
 of  a  hedge  planting.  Then  now  you  get 
 into  some  more  dynamic  things  like  false 
 agave,  king  seos,  things  that  are  more 
 structurally  vertical.  And  then  it  gets 
 into  a  more  of  a  jungle  vibe  again  over 
 here.  It's  almost  like  a  rinse  and 
 repeat  of  what  we  have  over  on  one  side. 
 That's  what  makes  it  look  like  it  has 
 rhythm  in  the  garden.  We  kind  of  created 
 a  little bit  of  a  break  here  with  some 
 lower  material.  Then  you  come  back  in  to 
 a  similar  pallet  as  we  had  over  there. 
 We've  got  the  Java  whites.  We've  got  the 
 red  Louisiana  red  copper  leaf  to  the 
 back.  And  that's  really  kind  of  giving 
 us  more  of  that  wild  fun  look  to  the 
 front.  Now,  unfortunately,  this  and  the 
 other  Christmas  palm  were  damaged  in  the 
 storm  and  they're  just  flushing  out  with 
 new  growth  this  summer.  So,  we're  going 
 to  have  to  give  them  some  time  to  offer 
 a  little  bit  of  height  in  this 
 particular  spot,  but  once  they  do, 
 that'll  finish  off  this  corner  bed. 
 Antilus  are  starting  to  catch  up.  We're 
 going  to  let  them  get  about  3  foot 
 taller  and  fill  in  this  whole  back 
 section.  So,  we  kind  of  mimic  what  we've 
 done  with  the  Louisiana  red  copper 
 leaves,  but  the  antiloo's  are  going  to 
 offer  a  nice  clustering  of  a  different 
 kind  of  burgundy  coloring,  but  still 
 tying  together  with  our  same  palette. 
 All  right,  you  guys.  So,  now  this  is 
 where  the  bed  changed.  So,  we  could  have 
 continued  to  swap  and  left  grass  all  in 
 this  middle  area.  But  my  clients  were 
 just  like  me.  You  know,  they  wanted 
 something  from  their  seating,  their 
 outdoor  seating  section,  and  from  the 
 inside  of  their  house  where  their 
 doorway  is  to  kind  of  see  looking  out, 
 something  that  was  going  to  draw  them 
 outside.  And  that's  exactly  what  my 
 garden  does  for  me.  And  if  you  guys  are 
 that  same  way  where  you're  like,  you 
 know,  I  spent  a  lot  of  time  indoors  or 
 back  on  my  back  patio,  but  there's 
 nothing  that  brings  me  out  to  make  my 
 garden  usable.  I  um  I  spoke  to  my 
 clients  and  we  talked  about,  hey,  would 
 you  want  a  a  pergola  out  here?  Would  you 
 want,  you  know,  a  fire  pit?  Would  you 
 want  water?  What  what  are  your  thoughts? 
 And  it  was  yes,  yes,  and  yes.  So,  I'm 
 like,  okay,  so  let's  do  it  all.  So,  we 
 created  a  new  um  PA  walkway  leading  out 
 into  the  middle  of  the  garden.  So,  their 
 PA  walkway  goes  pretty  much  from  the 
 gate  that  we  just  came  in  to  the  corner 
 of  the  other  gate  coming  to  their 
 backyard  section  and  then  opens  up  to 
 the  center  walkway.  And  flow  is  so 
 important,  you  guys,  being  able  to  to 
 have  a  continuous  flow  of  pavers  or  a 
 walkway  path  or  whatever  leading  to  that 
 area.  So,  it  looks  like  it  has  real 
 purpose.  Then,  we  found  a  finishing 
 point.  So,  we  needed  something  if  we're 
 going  to  have  something  in  the  middle  of 
 the  yard  to  have  something  with  some 
 anchoring.  It  doesn't  have  to  be  a 
 pergola,  you  guys.  if  that's  not  in  your 
 budget.  But  it  could  be  a  water  feature. 
 It  could  be  a  shade  sail.  Those  are 
 relatively  inexpensive  and  offer  a  big 
 area  to  really  gather  underneath.  Could 
 be  anything  that  kind  of  makes  you  want 
 to  go  out  there  and  sit  in.  It  could  be 
 a  big  shade  tree  with  a  bench  and  a 
 little  bubbling  water  feature.  Just 
 something  that's  going  to  draw  you  out 
 into  the  garden  that  you  might  want  to 
 take  a  phone  call,  walk  outside,  sit  in 
 that  spot  for  a  few  minutes  or  when 
 you're  doing  your  gardening,  sit  there 
 after  you're  done  pulling  weeds  and 
 trimming  and  whatnot.  just  a  little  spot 
 in  your  space  that  kind  of  takes  you 
 into  the  garden.  And  that's  exactly  what 
 this  area  has  become  for  Kathy  and 
 Kirby.  What  I  chose  to  do  in  this  area 
 was  find  an  entry  point.  Because  we  have 
 grass  on  this  side  and  we  have  grass  on 
 that  side,  we  needed  an  area  for  the 
 mower  to  run  straight  across  the  PA 
 patio.  So,  I  could  not  do  like  a  little 
 collection  here  and  a  little  collection 
 here  like  I  like  to  do  on  either  side  of 
 the  walkway.  So,  if  you  have  that  same 
 situation,  you  need  to  have  access 
 leading  from  one  spot  to  the  other,  just 
 take  that  same  planting  bed  and  stagger 
 it.  So,  take  it  instead  of  it  being 
 right  across  from  each  other  at  your 
 entrance  way,  stagger  it  forward.  One 
 pushed  back,  one  pulled  forward.  And 
 that's  exactly  what  we  have  here.  And  it 
 kind  of  really  gives  it  an  interesting 
 look.  And  if  you're  not  a  matchy  matchy 
 person,  that  really  fits  in  with  your 
 style.  So,  it  definitely  does  here.  So, 
 we  have  two  king  seos.  And  anytime  I 
 have  king  seos,  I  want  a  small  plant 
 grouping  next  to  it.  You  almost  want 
 like  a  swath  of  one  low  ground  cover 
 mixed  with  another  low  ground  cover. 
 Now,  this  is  golden  dew  or  gold  mound. 
 This  is  a  nice  collection  of  those  just 
 kind  of  wrapping  the  front  of  it.  And 
 when  I  use  gold  mound,  I  love  the  idea 
 of  using  little  rubies.  I  think  little 
 rubies  do  a  great  job,  a  great 
 collection  of  really  contrasting  in 
 color.  And  that  goes  for  any  of  your 
 ground  covers  that  you  guys  choose.  do  a 
 light  and  a  dark  and  then  have  something 
 kind  of  a  thriller  coming  out  of  the 
 middle  of  those  things.  And  you  guys 
 will  notice  in  this  particular  bed,  we 
 just  we  didn't  need  much.  So  when  I  say 
 a  swath,  you  kind  of  you  only  need  a 
 little  collection.  So  we've  got  four 
 gold  mound  in  this  area.  You  guys  know 
 how  I  love  to  stagger  my  gold  mound  or 
 stagger  anything  that  I  put  in.  So  one's 
 pulled  forward,  one's  pulled  back,  one's 
 pulled  at  an  angle,  and  one's  in  the 
 middle.  So  we  kind  of  have  a  a  nice 
 curvature  of  gold  mound  across  this 
 front.  And  the  same  thing  with  the 
 little  rubies.  I  never  put  them  in  a 
 straight  pattern.  Look  at  this 
 collection  of  thickness  right  here.  This 
 is  from  that  staggered  pattern.  They 
 grow  together  and  connect  really,  really 
 well.  If  you  stagger  a  zigzag  pattern, 
 takes  you  from  a  narrow  swath  to  a  nice 
 wide  swath,  a  nice  wide  area  for  them  to 
 collect.  It  makes  them  stronger,  makes 
 them  grow  in  faster.  Braid  at  the  top 
 and  braid  at  the  bottom,  and  that  really 
 helps  with  weed  prevention.  So,  don't  be 
 afraid  to  do  a  nice  thick  staggering  of 
 these  guys  in  place.  The  same  thing  with 
 this.  You'll  see  that  we  continued  on 
 with  the  swath  of  the  gold  mound  to  the 
 front  of  that  king  sego  there.  And  we've 
 got  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  it  looks  like  in  that 
 area.  And  again,  it's  just  a  staggered 
 formation  around  the  king  sego  just  to 
 continue  that  type  of  look.  I  wanted 
 everything  from  when  you're  seeing  from 
 the  seating  section  low  low  big  big.  So 
 everything  kind  of  goes  low  low.  Then 
 you  get  to  the  mammy  croins  which  are 
 the  secondary  larger  grouping.  Then  you 
 get  to  the  larger  variety  of  croins  as 
 the  backdrop.  And  then  you  get  to  your 
 trees  and  your  larger  accents  like  the 
 antiloo's  here.  That  is  your  big 
 backdrop.  So  as  you  guys  can  see  the 
 pygmy  date  palms  back  here.  They  have 
 not  grown  in  yet.  They're  going  to  take 
 a  couple  years  to  really  become  that 
 wall  that  they  need  to  come  in.  But  they 
 are  starting  to  do  just  that.  There  is  a 
 big  house  to  the  rear  side  of  this 
 property  line.  And  the  goal  is  for  these 
 pygmy  8  palms  when  they  reach  that  10  to 
 12t  height.  The  trunks  will  be  covered 
 by  all  this  lush  plant  material,  but  the 
 canopies  will  be  what's  covering  the 
 house  from  view,  which  is,  you  know,  my 
 golden  rule  when  it  comes  to  palm  trees. 
 That's  what  I  love  about  pigmentate 
 palms  is  they  offer  you  a  very  lacy  kind 
 of  hedge,  for  instance,  you  know,  with  a 
 very,  very  little  maintenance  of  just 
 having  to  trim  them  a  couple  times  a 
 year,  which  whatever  your  viewing  point 
 is,  whether  it's  from  the  backside 
 looking  forward.  In  this  particular 
 case,  the  viewing  point  is  the  doorway, 
 is  that  big  table,  their  seating 
 section,  their  patio  area.  You  want  that 
 to  be  super  inviting  from  that  spot 
 leading  all  the  way  to  the  back  side  of 
 the  property.  So,  in  doing  so,  you  want 
 to  make  sure  that  you  have  low  material 
 in  spaces.  Then  you  have  some  accents 
 popping  out  of  that  low  material.  So,  it 
 makes  it  interesting.  So,  the  accents  in 
 this  particular  spot  are  the  king  seos, 
 are  the  falses,  are  the  foxtail  ferns 
 even.  I  mean,  look  at  these  guys.  I  love 
 this  texture.  I  mean,  this  is  a  low 
 plant  with  a  lot  of  ump,  you  know?  So,  I 
 know  a  lot  of  people  do  mass  plantings 
 of  these.  I  tend  to  like  them  like  this 
 where  I  have  just  like  a  collection  of 
 four  of  them  in  a  staggered  grouping  at 
 just  an  entry  point  or  an  ending  point 
 or  at  the  edge  of  a  bed  cuz  they  just  do 
 a  nice  job  of  kind  of  really  changing 
 the  feel,  the  texture  of  the  rest  of  the 
 landscaping  because  those  leaves  are  so 
 different  than  almost  any  other  leaf 
 that  you  can  have  in  the  garden.  And 
 they're  so  low  maintenance.  So,  I  mean, 
 you  just  kind  of  trim  anything  unwanted. 
 You  pretty  much  just  hold  this  guy  up. 
 Anything  at  the  bottom  here,  you  just 
 nip  and  trim.  So,  super  super  easy  to 
 do.  And  because  they  don't  grow  too 
 tall,  they  really  stay  a  nice  kind  of 
 controlled  planting  right  by  an  entrance 
 space  without  getting  out  of,  you  know, 
 out  of  control. 
 Use  everything  that  is  yours,  everything 
 that  is  within  your  space.  If  you  can 
 make  your  whole  surroundings  beautiful 
 like  a  resort  does,  they  make  sure  that 
 there's  pathways  leading  to  this  little 
 nook  and  that  little  nook  and  this 
 interesting  space  and  that  interesting 
 space.  And  I  love  bringing  that  to 
 individual  homes.  That's  how  I  live  at 
 my  own  home.  To  me,  I  think  that's  how 
 everybody  would  want  to  live.  But  that's 
 what  I  love  about  having  these 
 conversations  with  my  clients.  So, 
 that's  what  we  did  here.  We  created 
 something  out  in  this  space  to  enjoy  to 
 draw  them  out.  So,  they're  still  looking 
 for  the  perfect  furniture  here.  A  fire 
 pit  and  some  outdoor  seating  in  this 
 section.  Potentially  some  hanging  swings 
 out  here  and  then  some  outdoor  lighting. 
 And  voila,  they  are  finished  off  with 
 this  gorgeous  space.  This  is  pretty  much 
 centered  in  the  middle  of  their  yard. 
 So,  it  kind  of  operates  as  a  nice  bit  of 
 division  in  this  whole  backyard  space. 
 So,  we've  got  the  pygmy  eight  palms  that 
 are  eventually  going  to  block  out  the 
 house  behind  it.  Then,  we've  got  pops  of 
 things  like  the  antiloo.  You  guys  know  I 
 love  my  antilus  because  of  what  they  do. 
 They're  going  to  collect  together.  These 
 unfortunately  are  still  leaning  a  little 
 bit  from  the  storm.  They're  going  to 
 collect  together.  Now,  antiloo's  you 
 guys,  you  can  absolutely  trim  the 
 tallest  stock.  So,  whenever  this  stock 
 gets  to  be  too  tall  for  you,  trim  that 
 tallest  stock  and  see  those  bare  spots 
 in  between.  Put  that  antiloo  head  right 
 into  that  bare  spot.  And  then  you've  got 
 a  whole  field  of  antiloo  before  you  know 
 it.  every  single  year  when  you  do  that 
 once  a  year  you're  going  to  have  plants 
 to  give  to  neighbors  and  friends  and 
 family  because  you  can  literally  farm 
 with  antiloo.  That's  what's  so  wonderful 
 about  them.  So  it's  pretty  much  free 
 plants  every  time  you  trim  and  they're 
 perfect  for  cutting.  So  those  of  you 
 guys  who  love  your  cutting  gardens,  take 
 those  guys  out,  put  them  in  a  vase.  They 
 will  last  forever.  They  will  root  in 
 there.  Then  you  can  take  that  plant  and 
 put  it  into  the  garden  two  months  later 
 and  then  have  a  brand  new  plant  in  your 
 garden  while  you  enjoyed  it  inside  the 
 house.  So  anyway,  that  was  my  plug  for 
 Auntie  Le.  Sorry,  a  little  long-winded 
 there.  And  then  we  have  a  nice  grouping 
 of  pie  crust  croins.  Like  a  little  bit 
 of  darkness  because  I  really  wanted  the 
 light  and  the  dark  to  really  contrast 
 here.  So  we  have  the  pie  crust  croins  as 
 a  dark  tone.  They're  just  coming  in  for 
 the  season.  You  can  see  that  spring 
 coloring  coming  through  finally  on  those 
 guys.  There  is  a  lot  of  love  hate  with 
 variegated  arvoca.  Now  I  do  know  this 
 plant  is  common.  It  is  used  in  biller's 
 packages.  There's  no  secret  about  this 
 plant.  It  gets  used  pretty  often.  And 
 it's  also  one  of  those  plants  that  are 
 easily  neglected  because  everybody 
 thinks  you  don't  have  to  do  anything  to 
 it.  It's  one  of  those  plants  that  so 
 hardy  it  can  withstand  any  kind  of 
 conditions.  Not  the  case.  The  little 
 love,  little  care,  it  is  a  great  ideal 
 lowmaintenance  plant.  Even  with  a  little 
 care,  it's  still  a  very  low 
 lowmaintenance  plant.  So  if  you  have  a 
 spot  in  your  garden  and  you  don't 
 absolutely  hate  this  light  and  green 
 leaf,  you're  going  to  have  enough 
 interesting  characters  in  the  garden 
 that  this  is  almost  like  a  supporting 
 cast  member,  the  one  that's  like,  I 
 don't  have  to  fuss  with  you  a  whole  lot. 
 So,  I'm  going  to  put  you  in  like  a 
 little  swath  of  that  in  because  I  need  a 
 light  coloration  and  I've  already  done  a 
 lot  of  other  of  those  plants  that  are 
 light  coloration.  So,  this  gives  you  a 
 nice  variegated  pop  of  brightness  with  a 
 very  little  amount  of  effort.  I  don't 
 use  a  ton  of  them.  I  try  not  to  use 
 giant  swats  of  them,  but  I  do  try  to  use 
 them  in  key  areas  and  they  work  really 
 well  for  that.  So,  don't  sleep  on  these 
 guys  because  they  are  tough.  They  can 
 handle  high  pH,  low  pH,  draining  soil, 
 non-  draining  soil.  So,  if  you've  got  a 
 pocket  of  an  area  that  is  a  really  tough 
 tough  place  to  find  plant  material  to 
 really  thrive  in  and  do  well  in, 
 variegated  or  cola  should  be  on  the 
 list.  So,  and  I  needed  a  real  controlled 
 plant.  You'll  notice  that  along  the 
 patio  and  walkway  sections,  I  always  use 
 controlled  plants.  Nothing  that's  going 
 to  get  too  hairy  carry.  There  are  no  job 
 whites  here.  You  notice,  you  know, 
 nothing  that's  going  to  get  too  bold, 
 too  big.  In  this  particular  spot,  it  is 
 going  from  the  ground  cover  to  the 
 vertical  plants  of  the  foxtail  ferns  to 
 mammy  croins  to  dwarf  exoras  to 
 variegated  arbicola  and  then  the 
 craziness  is  in  the  back.  You  guys, 
 that's  how  it  works.  Make  sure  that 
 everything  around  your  area  is  pristine, 
 clean.  Then  bring  your  texture,  your 
 funness,  your  craziness,  and  work  it 
 into  the  outside  of  those  areas.  You're 
 never  competing  and  you're  never 
 fighting  through  the  jungle  as  you're 
 getting  through  as  you're  trying  to  walk 
 through  your  walkways.  that  seems  to 
 really  work  for  me  in  my  designs.  But, 
 you  know,  to  each  his  own.  That's  just 
 my  style.  We  have  an  anchored  Christmas 
 palm  here.  And  then,  of  course,  like  I 
 mentioned  before,  some  very  controlled 
 plants  like  the  mammy  croins  around  the 
 base  of  the  Christmas  palm.  But  to  give 
 this  area  a  little  ump  because  we  have 
 the  water  feature  on  the  opposite  side 
 of  them,  I  wanted  something  with  some 
 weight  over  here.  So,  we  have  a  trio  of 
 false  agave.  You  guys,  false  agave  are 
 my  go-to  plant.  I  love  the  architecture 
 they  create  in  a  garden.  They're  like 
 the  sculpture  in  the  garden.  I  just  love 
 what  they  offer  in  a  space  and  it's  like 
 a  little  pow  feature  in  a  garden, 
 especially  when  you  have  low  material 
 all  the  way  around  them.  I  think  they  do 
 a  fabulous  job  of  that.  Whatever  you 
 have,  if  you  have  a  bird  feeder  in  your 
 house,  if  or  in  your  backyard  area,  if 
 you  have  anything  with  any  weight,  a 
 bird  bath,  a  fountain,  a  swing  in  one 
 area,  whatever  it  is,  you  want  to  make 
 sure  that  you  balance  that  on  the 
 opposite  side  with  something  equally 
 heavy.  So,  on  this  side,  we  have  this 
 gorgeous  bubbling  water  feature.  I  love 
 the  basalt  columns  bubbling  feature.  You 
 guys  might  remember  that  from  my  own 
 yard.  I  just  love  the  way  it  looks.  It 
 offers  light  at  night.  It  offers  just  a 
 really  cool  little  rustic  charm  in  the 
 garden.  And  it's  not  like  I'm  a  dramatic 
 traditional  fountain,  but  it  fits  into 
 me  with  a  tropical  landscape  really 
 well.  I  love  the  verticalness  to  it.  And 
 I  think  it's  just  a  fantastic  feature. 
 It  bubbles  up,  disappears  into  the 
 rocks.  There's  a  big  basin  down  below 
 that's  about  a  50-gallon  basin.  Holds 
 that  water  down  below  so  you're  not 
 fighting  the  algae.  every  time  the 
 irrigation  comes  on,  it  adds  tops  off  a 
 little  bit  of  water  because  there's  so 
 much  wind  and  and  you  know,  obviously 
 heat  some  absorption  that  happens.  That 
 way  they  don't  have  to  come  out  here  and 
 constantly  add  water  every  single  week. 
 You  know,  just  easy  care  type  of 
 fountain  work.  But  you  guys,  that's  what 
 I  love  about  these  particular  kind  of 
 fountains.  I  just  think  that  they're 
 lowmaintenance.  They're  easy  to  install 
 and  incorporate  into  a  garden  bed.  But 
 you  definitely  if  you're  going  to  bring 
 something  like  that  into  your  garden, 
 balance  out  the  opposite  side  with 
 something  like  the  blue  agave,  the  false 
 agave,  the  king  seos,  whatever  else  that 
 you  need  on  that  opposite  side  to  give 
 you  some  balance  there.  So  let's  move  on 
 to  the  rest  of  the  garden. 
 All right,  guys.  So  when  you  can  see 
 that  we're  now  on  the  opposite  side  of 
 the  pergola  here,  and  now  you  can  see  a 
 little bit  more  what  I  was  talking  about 
 with  these  cool  fall  agave.  We've  teared 
 down  with  the  blew  my  minds  just  at  the 
 bottom  there.  And  you  can  see  I've  just 
 staggered  them  there.  You  do  not  need  a 
 ton  of  plants  here.  There's  three  blue 
 my  minds  here  and  there's  just  a 
 staggered  grouping  of  blue  my  minds 
 here.  You  know,  you're  just  working  with 
 the  bed  that  you  have  to  work  with.  You 
 know,  I  plant  my  blue  my  minds  no  closer 
 than  two  2  and  1/2t  on  center.  Really 
 give  them  some  space  to  fill  out  and 
 become  their  gorgeous  selves.  And  the 
 same  way  with  plants  in  general,  if  it's 
 an  upright  plant  like  this  dwarf  exora, 
 I'm  going  to  plant  this  a  little  bit 
 closer  because  its  natural  way  to  grow 
 is  like  this.  So  it'll  take  forever  for 
 them  to  connect.  So  I  do  kind  of  stagger 
 them  in  close  together.  And  I  believe 
 we've  got  like  seven  of  them  in  this 
 grouping.  And  that's  kind  of  how  I  like 
 to  do it.  So  we've  got  seven  here  and 
 seven  over  on  that  side.  And  then  I've 
 just  got  a  nice  little  staggered 
 grouping  till  we  start  to  get  into  the 
 bigger  material  back  here.  It's  the  same 
 rinse  and  repeat  as  I  mentioned  over 
 into  that  side.  You  know  where  we  have  a 
 little  bit  of  crazy,  a  little  bit  of 
 controlled,  and  then  now  we're  going  to 
 get  back  into  the  little  crazy  again. 
 So,  we've  got  the  backdrop  of  these 
 pygmy  8  palms  again  to  help,  you  know, 
 soften  the  the  wall  line  that  are  here. 
 You  can  see  we've  got  them  staggered. 
 So,  we've  got  the  one  pulled  forward  and 
 then  one  pushed  back  by  the  wall.  One 
 pushed  back  by  the  wall  here,  one  pulled 
 forward.  We've  got  them  one  pushed  back 
 further  back  here.  And  then  over  on  that 
 side,  we  have  it  pushed  back  by  the 
 wall.  So,  you  can  kind  of  see  the 
 forward  and  backward  motion.  Now,  if  you 
 guys  have  the  room  to  stagger  the 
 pygmies  like  that,  they  grow  in 
 beautifully  together  like  that  because 
 it's  more  organic.  that's  more  natural. 
 If  you  don't  and  you  have  to  do  a 
 straight  line,  don't  fuss.  Just  make  the 
 plant  material  to  the  front  of  those 
 more  interesting  and  more  staggered. 
 Make  sure  you  put  little  clusters  of 
 different  varieties  of  plant  material  in 
 front  of  them  to  make  that  happen.  We 
 just  happen  to  have  the  room  here.  So, 
 we  did  that,  you  know.  So,  you  can  see 
 when  you're  looking  at  this  garden, 
 there's  a  lot  of  this  going  on.  High, 
 high,  low,  high,  low,  the  whole  thing. 
 And  that's  how  it's  going  to  grow.  And 
 if  you  can  do  that  right  off  the  bat, 
 your  maintenance  is  way  less  than  trying 
 to  kind  of  keep  plants  individual  and 
 separate  them.  and  you  know  work  that 
 way.  But  if  you  can  do  a  big  clustering 
 of  something  big  and  then  bring  it  back 
 down  with  something  like  this  that's 
 never  going  to  compete  ever  with 
 something  like  this,  it's  always  going 
 to  be  very  controlled.  Then  now  you 
 don't  even  have  to  worry  about  that 
 break.  That  break  is  just  there.  So  you 
 have  that  lowline  grouping  here  to  offer 
 that  break.  Then  you  come  in  with  a  sea 
 of  some  crazy  like  the  blaze  copper 
 leaf.  I  love  this  variegation  pop  of 
 color.  It's  some  probably  one  of  the 
 first  things  that  you  see  when  you  come 
 around  the  corner  of  this  backyard. 
 Then  it's  backed  by  the  sea  of  Java 
 white  copper  leaf.  Now  we've  got  nine  10 
 of  the  blaze  copper  leaf  in  here  in  this 
 grouping  and  I  have  a  good  12  in  the 
 back  of  with  these  Java  whites  and  it 
 might  be  closer  to  14.  You  can  see  how 
 this  is  just  a  sea  of  these  to  the  back 
 and  that's  kind  of  what  I  wanted.  I 
 wanted  this  whole  area  underneath  this 
 very  old  pointiana  tree  to  really  have 
 kind  of  a  big  like  a  finish  point.  This 
 is  a  big  final  in  the  garden.  So  I  want 
 this  height  to  really  really  happen. 
 We're  not  getting  the  full  view  of  what 
 this  is  going  to  be  in  this  garden 
 because  the  Brazilian  red  cloaks  to  the 
 back  are  a  little  slower  grower  than  the 
 other  copper  leaves.  Copper  leaves  are 
 going to  be  on  the  faster  point,  but 
 they  were  worth  it.  And  I  told  my 
 clients  it's  going  to  be  a  little  bit 
 lopsided  for  a  little  while  because  I 
 could  not  find  Brazilian  red  cloaks  any 
 bigger  when  we  planted  them.  So,  she 
 knew  she  had  to  keep  these  a  little  bit 
 more  contained  until  those  catch  up.  So, 
 we  have  a  clustering  of  six  Brazilian 
 red  cloaks  in  that  rear  corner  back 
 there.  Again,  they  are  staggered,  so 
 they  will  grow  together.  They're  just 
 starting  to  connect,  but  once  they  do, 
 they  will  consume  that  whole  wall.  I'll 
 get  Bryce  to  pop  up  a  picture  of  what 
 they  look  like  as  a  backdrop.  So,  we  are 
 going  to  have  hot  pink  back  there.  We're 
 going  to  have  the  light  tone  and 
 coloration  of  the  Java  whites  here. 
 Then,  we're  going  to  have  the  darker 
 coloration  of  the  pink  and  the 
 burgundies  down  below.  And  so,  this 
 backyard's  combination  is  yellow,  pink, 
 burgundy,  orange,  purple  with  the  purple 
 crepe  myrtles  coming  in.  watermelon  pink 
 from  the  pink  crepe  myrtles  and  then  the 
 red  tones  and  the  orange  tones  um  of  the 
 other  copper  leaf  and  the  orange  from 
 these  awesome  beautiful  pagotas.  Oh  my 
 goodness,  they  are  just  starting  to  come 
 in.  And  look  how  gorgeous  they  are.  I 
 don't  know  what  offers  such  a  tropical 
 bloom  like  the  pagotas.  Now  those  come 
 with  a  warning  you  guys.  Those  will 
 multiply.  They  will  create  more  pagotas. 
 So  you  have  to  definitely  put  them  in  an 
 area  where  you  can  keep  them  controlled. 
 So  you  see  how  the  back  is  cleared  out 
 in  this  bed.  There  is  just  mulch. 
 There's  open  areas.  That  way  my  clients 
 can  make  sure  to  manage  the  pagotas 
 where  they  want  them.  And  I  would  not 
 put  them  in  like  a  sea  of  java  white 
 copper  leaves.  I  can  put  them  in  a 
 controlled  pattern  next  to  things  like 
 this  variegated  arbicola.  Hence  why  I  do 
 love  this  plant.  This  plant,  this  is  our 
 serene  look.  This  is  the  opposite  of  the 
 java  whites.  This  is  more  controlled. 
 This  gives  us  great  contrast  to  this 
 coloration.  This  is  a  a  perfect  plant 
 for  that.  And  then  we  can  keep  this  more 
 hedge  formal  fitting,  allowing  us  to 
 have  something  wild  and  crazy  to  the 
 back  because  you  don't  want  to  mix  too 
 much  of  those  two,  especially  when  you 
 have  a  plant  that  likes  to  propagate 
 itself  like  the  pigota  plant  does.  So, 
 these  are  going  to  fill  in  this  area, 
 but  to  a  point.  And  then  there's  another 
 clean  species  of  a  tree  as  a  centerpiece 
 with  this  purple  um  crate  myrn. 
 Unfortunately,  it's  not  in  bloom  yet. 
 probably  another  month,  but  it's  going 
 to  be  stunning  as  this  purple,  orange, 
 yellow,  and  green  comes  together  on  this 
 side  of  the  garden.  All  right,  you  guys. 
 So,  I  know  we  talked  about  plant 
 groupings,  plant  combinations,  um  things 
 to  definitely  are  going  to  just  work  in 
 your  garden  in  Florida  long  term,  but 
 there  is  one  thing  that  I  did  want  to 
 touch  on  if  you  can  just  to  add  a  little 
 bit  of  a  difference  in  the  garden.  There 
 are  things  that  you  can  incorporate  like 
 the  fountain  we  mentioned,  like  a  bird 
 bath,  but  things  like  boulders.  I  love 
 the  look  of  a  little  boulder  in  the 
 garden.  It  doesn't  have  to  be  anything 
 big.  can  be  something  like  basketball 
 size.  But  I  love  just  little  touches  of 
 a  different  element  in  the  garden.  If 
 you  can  incorporate  that  and  you  can 
 incorporate  them  and  some  stone,  that 
 different  element  in  a  garden  makes  such 
 a  interesting  place  for  your  eye  to 
 rest.  It's  like,  oh,  there's  more  going 
 on  out  there  than  I  thought.  I  really  do 
 like  the  look  of  that.  But  I  love  the 
 way  this  is  inset  kind  of  at  an  angle. 
 And  you  can  play  with  that.  Stick  some 
 dirt  underneath  of  it  to  kind  of  make  it 
 fit  your  space.  But  you  can  incorporate 
 them  throughout  the  garden  in  key  areas. 
 So  if  you've  got  false  agave,  if  you've 
 got  king  seos,  if  you've  got  anything 
 vertical  like  that,  stick  a  couple  of 
 small  boulders  like  this,  add  pack  some 
 dirt  in  behind  them  so  they're  tilted  up 
 a  little  bit,  making  them  look  a  little 
 bit  bigger  than  what  they  are.  Play  with 
 it  a  little  bit.  Find  out  if  you  want  it 
 on  an  incline.  Find  out  I  kind  of  want 
 it  sitting  more  straight  forward.  So 
 just  a  different  element  in  the  garden 
 that  really  kind  of  plays  with  the  space 
 and  gives  a  little  bit  more  personality. 
 Just  for  reference,  this  is  Tennessee 
 field  stone  and  you  can  get  them  in  a 
 giant  pallet  and  you  can  really  kind  of 
 play  with  them  throughout  your  garden. 
 They  go  a  long  way  when  you  get  them 
 that  way.  This  is  a  triple  basalt  column 
 from  Aquacapes.  And  then  this  Alabama 
 white  river  rock.  I  like  the  way  that 
 this  bright  against  a  dark  mulch.  I 
 think  that  really  makes  a  nice  contrast. 
 This  is  the  inch  and  a  half  variety. 
 This  is  what  I  use  in  landscape  beds  for 
 the  most  part  or  around  water  features. 
 I  do  not  use  them  in  walkways  because  of 
 the  round  rock  and  as  we  know  round  rock 
 rolls.  So  I  use  more  of  the  gray 
 granates  and  the  Tahesian  gray  granates 
 for  walkway  pathways.  But  this  is  a 
 great  landscape  rock  for  beds  themselves 
 because  it  does  offer  a  nice  bit  of 
 highlight  in  the  garden.  And  then  we 
 just  kind  of  did  a  nice  aluminum  alloy 
 edging  border  around  it  to  kind  of  keep 
 it  nice  and  controlled.  You  know,  a  year 
 later  and  you  can  see  we're  not  bleeding 
 to  the  mulch  bed.  It's  kind  of  staying 
 nice  and  compact.  Edging  is  about  4  and 
 12  in  tall.  It  does  a  great  job  of 
 keeping  everything  neat  but  not,  you 
 know,  overly  visible.  So,  if  you  want 
 something  more  of  an  invisible  edge 
 line,  the  aluminum  alloy  edging  is  a 
 good  edging  to  work  with  in  that 
 particular  situation.  All right,  you 
 guys.  So,  I  just  want  to  pop  in  here 
 real  quick  and  let  you  know  that  we  are 
 a  landscape  design  and  installation 
 company.  So,  we  have  an  in-house 
 installation  team.  If  you're  looking  for 
 more  than  just  the  inspiration  that 
 you're  seeing  here  in  the  video  and  you 
 just  would  like  your  project  done  for 
 you,  we  do  landscape  design  and 
 installation  through  the  Treasure  and 
 Space  Coast.  And  then  we  also  do 
 landscape  design  only  for  those  of  you 
 guys  outside  that  area.  And  for  those  of 
 you  guys  who  don't  need  quite  that  much, 
 you  just  need  a  little  touch  of  this  or 
 touch  of  that,  some  advice  on  certain 
 spots  in  your  garden,  then  reach  out  to 
 us  for  a  virtual  consult.  and  we  hope  to 
 hear  from  you  soon.  Thank  you  guys  so 
 much.  I  really  appreciate  you  spending 
 the  time  with  us.  If  you  enjoyed  today's 
 tour,  then  you  will  enjoy  our  most 
 recent  video  of  five  unique  plants  and 
 trees  in  our  garden.  That  was  a  fun  one 
 to  shoot  with  some  cool  exotics.  So, 
 thank  you  guys  so  much.  Take  care.

---

 Well,  hello  gardeners.  Welcome  back.  We 
 are  back  in  my  backyard  here,  Vero 
 Beach,  Florida,  zone  10A,  and  we  are 
 going  to  talk  about  color,  color,  color, 
 but  color  without  blooms.  So,  some  nice 
 leaf  color  that  can  handle  great  shady 
 spots,  filtered  light  spot,  just  these 
 perfect  little  plant  groupings  that  you 
 can  incorporate  into  that  spot  in  your 
 garden.  So,  let's  jump  right  in.  Oh, 
 before  we  do,  please  like  and  subscribe. 
 Hit  that  little  notification  bell.  We 
 post  every  single  weekend.  So,  if 
 gardening  along  Florida  is  your  jam, 
 then  definitely  hit  that  notification 
 bell  so  you  will  see  us  in  your  feed 
 every  single  Saturday  and  Sunday.  But 
 now,  let's  get  started.  One  of  my 
 favorites,  if  you  guys  have  been  around 
 for  this  on  this  channel  for  a  while, 
 you  know  it.  It  is  the  Sanchezia.  I 
 absolutely  love  the  variegation  leaf 
 color  of  this  particular  plant.  It  can 
 handle  filtered  light.  It  can  handle 
 full  shade.  It  can  handle  morning  sun  to 
 early  afternoon  sun,  the  heat  of  the  day 
 sun,  the  late  afternoon  sun.  And  that's 
 where  you  need  to  make  sure  that  it  has 
 some  filtration,  some  filtered  coverage 
 like  you  see  this  bottle  palm  is  doing 
 for  this  particular  plant  here.  It's  one 
 of  those  plants  that  really  bright  spot 
 in  the  garden.  So  if  you  kind  of  need 
 some  impacts  of  bright  color 
 combinations,  mix  these  guys  with 
 something  like  the  antiloo  or  a  solid 
 color  backdrop  and  they  will  really 
 really  shine.  Easy  to  keep  up  with. 
 They're  a  cluster  planting.  So  if  you 
 need  to  kind  of  put  a  nice  big  pop  of 
 them  together,  they  can  overlap  each 
 other  and  really  grow  in  so  so  lovely. 
 So  this  is  one  of  my  favorite  plants  to 
 work  with  when  I  have  like  pops  in  the 
 garden  that  I  really  want  to  highlight 
 an  area.  So  for  instance,  in  this 
 particular  spot  right  here,  this  is  more 
 of  a  straight  path.  Normally  I  like  to 
 curve  with  them,  but  in  this  particular 
 space,  there  are  four  plants  and  I  plant 
 them  about  2  foot  on  center.  So  that  way 
 there's  room  for  them  to  grow  together. 
 Now,  normally  when  I'm  not  working  with 
 a  direct  straight  narrow  path  like  I 
 have  here,  I  like  to  plant  them  in  a 
 staggered  grouping.  So,  I'll  put  one 
 here,  here,  here,  and  here.  And  then  let 
 them  connect  and  fold  together.  And  they 
 become  such  a  nice  thick  clustering. 
 They  do  need  trimming.  So,  every  March, 
 June,  September,  and  December  time 
 frame,  that's  usually  my  months  that  I'm 
 out  here  doing  some  trimming,  I'll  do 
 some  light  clipping  of  these  guys.  Make 
 for  beautiful  cutings.  So,  if  you  like 
 to  put  voses  in  your  house  and  do  some 
 lovely  cutings,  this  is  one  of  my 
 favorites  to  use.  You  can  use  these,  mix 
 them  with  antiloos,  and  voila,  you  have 
 a  nice  little  centerpiece  grouping  for 
 the  the  kitchen  table.  But  I  love  this 
 variety  of  plant  and  it's  pretty  common, 
 pretty  easy  to  find.  So  I  think  it  is  a 
 winner  winner  chicken  dinner  in  my 
 garden.  But  you  guys  will  have  to  let  me 
 know  what  you  think.  Neighboring  plant 
 right  next  to  this  guy  is  the 
 magnificent  Croin.  Now  you  guys  have 
 seen  these  in  my  videos.  I  use  them 
 often  for  my  clients  in  designs  because 
 I  just  love  this  big  giant  leaf  that 
 they  offer.  This  little  speckled 
 coloring.  It's  just  so  dynamic  and 
 really  offers  a  nice  big  punch.  This  is 
 particularly  one  plant  and  I  don't 
 normally  do  a  one  plant  garden  but  I 
 think  I  just  stuck  it  here  to  cover  up  a 
 base  of  maybe  this  quarterline.  I  love 
 this  little  look  and  I  didn't  have  a  lot 
 of  space  and  I  needed  a  big  impact  color 
 and  I  think  it  is  doing  the  job.  So 
 magnificent  croins  are  on  my  list.  This 
 guy  I  trim  about  twice  a  year.  You  have 
 to  do  very  very  little  to  it.  Grows  very 
 very  slow  and  kind  of  just  chunks  out 
 and  becomes  a  nice  centerpiece  to  kind 
 of  create  a  bright  spot.  I  have  the 
 dumpane  defebakia  right  here  and  you 
 guys  can  see  the  color  that  this  offers. 
 Now  I  have  them  in  a  spot  where  I'm 
 gonna  have  to  move  him  because  they  do 
 like  to  get  a  little  bit  taller.  This  is 
 my  first  attempt  in  trying  to  use  them 
 to  see  how  well  they're  going  to  do  in 
 this  spot.  They're  doing  pretty  well, 
 but  my  mistake  was  putting  him  in  the 
 wrong  spot.  And  you  know  how  I  stress 
 about  the  right  plant  in  the  right  spot, 
 but  I  really  wasn't  familiar  with  this 
 camo  variety  when  I  got  it.  So  I'm  going 
 to  have  to  move  him  to  the  backside  and 
 really  let  him  be  a  bright  spot  in  a 
 garden.  But  I  really  like  how  he  plays 
 nicely  off  of  these  colors.  You'll 
 notice  that  this  coloration  of  the  ice 
 tone  croins  and  this  coloration  of  the 
 magnificent  croin.  Even  though  there's 
 bright  color  tones  in  them,  there's  also 
 dark  colors.  So  that's  the  reason  why  I 
 chose  this  variety  of  the  dumpane  to  go 
 here  because  this  is  like  a  white  and 
 green  and  that  it  really  contrasts  so 
 well  with  some  of  the  dark  tones  of  the 
 croins.  So,  anytime  that  you're  wanting 
 a  pop  of  color,  kind  of  keep  that  in 
 mind  with  your  garden,  you  know,  hit 
 something  like  like  these  guys  or 
 another  great  plant  that  can  handle  some 
 shade  is  the  fus  heart  here.  These  are 
 fabulous  for  spots  like  that  just 
 because  look  at  that  color  combination 
 between  the  two.  It's  a  bright  spot. 
 This  is  a  dark  spot.  Bright  spot,  dark 
 spot.  So,  the  combination  of  of  how 
 those  all  play  well  together.  throw  in 
 some  greens  with  that  if  you  have  the 
 room  for  it.  And  oh  my  goodness,  a  green 
 screen  does  a  fantastic  job  of  making 
 everything  in  front  of  it  pop.  So  things 
 like  my  burl  marks  or  my  farfugiums  that 
 you  see  over  here  really  do  a  great  job 
 of  making  what  around  it  really  kind  of 
 pop  and  come  to  life.  I  know  this  video 
 is  mainly  about  colorful  plants,  but  you 
 almost  can't  have  enough  color  without 
 green.  You  want  that  green  to  kind  of 
 give  you  that  really  good  balance 
 because  it  really  shows  everything  off. 
 It's  a  supporting  cast  member  in  the 
 group,  you  know,  it's  the  thing  that 
 really  kind  of  brings  it  all  together. 
 Don't  be  afraid  to  throw  a  little  bit  of 
 green  in  that  group.  So,  you  guys  know 
 that  I  love  my  Aglion.  I  just  think  they 
 are  like  a  cluster  grouping  that  just 
 goes  to  town,  really  gives  us  that  great 
 forest  kind  of  look.  Um,  they're  the 
 perfect  understory  planting.  So,  if  you 
 guys  have  tons  of  palm  trees  offering 
 tons  of  shade  like  I  do  in  my  garden, 
 then  these  are  the  perfect  low  dwellers. 
 These  are  the  guys  that  really  are  on 
 the  base  of  the  jungle.  That's  exactly 
 where  they  want  to  be.  They  do  not  want 
 much  light  at  all.  They  actually  thrive 
 in  a  very,  very  dark  environment.  And 
 just  look  at  how  well  they're  going  to 
 town.  But  look  what  a  forest  of  bright 
 color  they  offer.  And  there's  so  many 
 different  varieties  of  these.  This  is  my 
 favorite.  It's  a  silver  bay.  I  love  how 
 chunky  they  are.  I  have  had  to  trim 
 those,  you  guys,  like  maybe  three  or 
 four  times.  I  I  trim  them  once  a  year 
 and  it's  really  mostly  just  trimming  off 
 any  brown  or  anything  like  that  that 
 needs  to  kind  of  come  off  the  plant. 
 It's  so  minimal.  If  you  want  a  easy  care 
 kind  of  garden,  you  can  put,  you  know, 
 clusters  of  palm  trees  and  then  fill 
 those  with  those  guys.  Farfugeium,  burl 
 marks,  voila.  You're  you're  good  to  go 
 for  a  tropical  kind  of  leafy  kind  of 
 garden  that  can  handle  a  great  deal  of 
 shade.  So,  but  they're  one  of  my 
 favorites  in  there.  So,  let's  pop  into 
 the  next  one.  Just  look  at  the  red  tone 
 in  this  underbelly  of  this  leaf.  I 
 absolutely  love  those  and  those  red 
 stems.  These  are  the  Rojo  Congos,  you 
 guys.  I  love  that  tropical  foliage.  They 
 offer  that  big  giant  leaf.  I  mean,  look 
 at  the  size  of  it  according  to  my  hand. 
 So,  this  is  a  big  grouping  that  I  have 
 over  near  my  waterfall.  And  I  just  love 
 that  big  giant  lily  pad  leaf  and  those 
 red  stems  that  they  pop  out  with.  They 
 just  really  kind  of  give  you  that 
 colorful  vibe.  Now,  it's  not  a  color 
 like  look  at  me  kind  of  dramatic  kind  of 
 coloring,  but  it's  enough  to  say  hello 
 there.  I'm  tropical.  Have  a  little  bit 
 of  combination  color.  Your  attention 
 goes  right  to  it.  So,  you  can  mix  those 
 with  things  like  Sanchezia,  aglionas, 
 pretty  much  anything  that  we  just  talked 
 about.  Some  of  that  brighter  tone  and 
 lighter  coloring.  Mix  those  dark 
 contrasting  colors  with  that.  And  oh  my 
 goodness,  you  guys,  it  is  just  that 
 perfect  mix  of  tropicals,  brights,  and 
 dark  tones.  I  definitely  think  they're 
 worth  using  in  your 
 garden.  All  right,  you  guys.  So,  the 
 next  plant  is  the  sloppy  painter  Croin. 
 And  this  one  is  going  to  require  some 
 balancing  on  both  Bryce  and  mine.  So, 
 hopefully  we  don't  end  up  in  the  water 
 while  we're  uh  while  we're  shooting 
 this,  but  I  wanted  you  to  see  it.  This 
 is  a  low  lowmaintenance  plant  that 
 offers  pops  of  color.  If  you've  got  a 
 spot  in  your  garden  and  you've  got  a 
 canopy  of  trees  and  you  kind  of  want 
 something  that's  going  to  push  out,  try 
 to  find  a  little  bit  of  sun  but  still 
 offer  bright  color.  I  mean,  this  spot 
 right  here,  super  dark,  super  shady, 
 rarely  gets  any  sun.  Maybe  just  a  little 
 bit  of  this  tip  right  over  top  of  us 
 here.  And  you  can  see  that's  why  these 
 guys  are  pushing  out.  I  rarely  ever 
 trim.  Maybe  once  a  year.  An  ideal  plant 
 to  work  with  for  a  pop,  a  bright  color, 
 and  a  dark  spot.  So  if  you  have  palm 
 trees  like  palms,  you  want  a  little  bit 
 of  depth  in  the  garden,  incorporate 
 these  in  a  rear  corner.  Let  them  pop  up 
 and  fill  out  and  then  plant  something 
 darker,  a  variegation  color  down  below, 
 and  you're  going  to  have  such  a  lovely 
 combination  with  these  sloppy  pan 
 croins.  No  blooms,  but  tons  and  tons  of 
 leaf  color  on  these  guys.  I've  got  them 
 another  couple  places  in  the  garden. 
 I'll  get  Bryce  to  pop  it  on  the  screen 
 for  you  guys  so  you  can  kind  of  see  it 
 in  different 
 situations.  All right,  you  guys.  So,  we 
 popped  over  into  my  front  yard  and  the 
 next  grouping  is  going  to  be  the 
 antiloo.  I  am  in  love  with  this  plant 
 because  it  is  so  versatile.  It  can 
 handle  shade.  It  can  handle  filter 
 light.  It  can  handle  sun.  It  can  handle 
 it  can  handle  anything.  It's  just  so 
 fabulous.  So,  you'll  notice  that  this 
 grouping  back  behind  us  is  more  of  a 
 solid  leaf  in  color.  And  that  is  rare  to 
 find  when  you're  looking  for  a  colorful 
 plant  that  can  handle  a  darker 
 environment  or  a  plant  that  can  give  you 
 a  lot  of  color  without  blooms.  And  I 
 think  that  this  just  does  it  so 
 fabulously.  You  can  keep  them  at  more  of 
 a  small  cluster.  I  know  this  seems  like 
 a  very  big  spot,  but  I  love  them  right 
 by  my  front  entrance.  And  I  have  let 
 them  get  what  I  know  what  is  this  8  nt 
 tall.  Um  cuz  I'm  a  little  This 
 is  so  tall  behind  me.  But  I  love  this 
 big  pop  of  color  right  as  soon  as  you 
 come  into  the  front  gate  of  my  house 
 that  I  just  think  that  it  draws  your 
 eyes  so  fabulously.  And  you  can  mix 
 these  with  a  lot  of  the  same  plants  that 
 we  just  talked  about.  Song  of  India.  I 
 incorporate  them  all  the  time  with 
 these.  That  white  and  that  green  leaf 
 mixed  with  this  kind  of  color  and  that 
 dark  contrast.  Those  two  together  plays 
 so  well.  And  then  if  you're  in  more  sun 
 environment,  gold  mound,  gold  mound  is 
 an  ideal  plant  because  it  has  that 
 beautiful  yellow  leaf  to  it.  It  stays 
 more  compact.  So  it's  never  going  to 
 compete  with  any  of  the  bigger  plants 
 like  the  quarter  lines.  And  that  yellow 
 and  this  dark  burgundy.  It's  just  just 
 like  painting  with  colors  you  guys.  It's 
 just  so  gorgeous  to  work  with.  So,  and 
 of  course,  Sanchezia,  copper  leaves,  any 
 of  that  variety  with  these  antiloo  are 
 going  to  give  you  that  awesome  contrast 
 of  color  pretty  immediately.  So,  this  is 
 definitely  a  must  in  the  garden.  So, 
 let's  go  check  out  the  next  and  the  last 
 one  for  us.  It  is  one  of  my 
 favorites.  So,  my  next  plant,  my  next 
 feature  plant  is  definitely  one  of  my 
 favorites.  This  Imperialis  burmilad  is 
 just  so  ideal  that  I  have  it  flanking 
 the  entrance  of  my  garden.  Um,  it  is 
 almost  as  versatile  as  the  plant  before 
 it,  the  antiloo.  It  is  a  low  growing 
 plant,  so  it  stays  nice  and  compact.  You 
 can  put  it  in  a  relatively  small  space 
 like  I  have  them  here.  It  gives  you  this 
 beautiful  purple  and  green  tone  to  the 
 leaf.  Just  absolutely  stunners.  It  is 
 one  of  the  vermilads  that  does  not 
 produce  pups.  So  it  stays  where  you  put 
 it,  which  is  ideal  for  any  Florida  plant 
 because  they're  so  hard  hard  to  find 
 those.  So  it  is  one  of  my  favorites  to 
 use.  It  is  definitely  a  staple,  more  of 
 an  architectural  feel  in  a  garden.  So 
 you  don't  have  to  necessarily  have 
 anything  with  it,  which  is  very  very 
 unique.  Now,  if  you  have  like  a  focal 
 point  area,  you  guys,  in  your  garden, 
 maybe  you've  got  an  awesome  palm  tree 
 and  you  want  to  incorporate  three  of 
 them  just  down  below  at  the  crown  and 
 kind  of  angle  them  out  and  around  it. 
 I've  used  them  as  understory  trees  or 
 understory  accents  to  a  centerpiece  tree 
 and  they  just  show  off  in  that  space.  So 
 versatile  plant  can  handle  more  sun  than 
 what  we  have  here.  This  particular  area 
 because  our  outdoor  canopy  out  here 
 offers  some  shade  over  top  of  this  guy. 
 So  this  one  doesn't  get  quite  as  much 
 sun  as  the  one  next  to  it.  So  you  can 
 see  that  this  is  a  little  bit  lighter 
 greener  of  a  leaf  that  can  handle  this 
 is  in  more  full  sun  environment  where 
 this  is  more  partial  sun  environment.  So 
 you  can  really  see  kind  of  what  you  get 
 depending  on  the  location  that  you're 
 in.  But  the  mere  fact  that  they  can 
 handle  both  situations  really  well  is 
 absolutely  ideal.  So,  they're  definitely 
 one  for  the  list  if  you're  going  to 
 incorporate  them.  And  what  they  don't 
 they  scream  tropical?  I  mean,  I  just 
 absolutely  love  them.  Um,  I  have  had 
 this  question  where  people  are  concerned 
 about  holding  mosquitoes  in  the  cups 
 because  of  course  they  do  hold  water  in 
 these  particular  areas.  And  all  I  do  is 
 about  once  a  month,  I'm  not  super 
 diligent  about  it,  but  all  I  do  is  run 
 the  hose  in  this  center  and  it  flushes 
 all  of  that  old  water  out.  So,  it  will 
 hold  water  for  a  period  of  time  before 
 it  starts  to  drain  or  evaporate.  Now, 
 the  more  sun  that  it's  in,  the  less  you 
 have  to  worry  about  that  because  I 
 hardly  ever  have  to  do  it  with  that  one. 
 But  with  this  one,  because  it  gets  more 
 protection  in  those  that  are  by  my 
 waterfall,  they  get  more  protection  and 
 not  enough  sun  to  dry  out.  I  will  have 
 to  go  in  there  and  flush  out  those  cups. 
 But  it  is  just  it's  you  know  it's  here 
 and  it's  there.  So  definitely  worth  the 
 effort  considering  that  there's  very 
 else  little  to  do.  They  are  slow  growers 
 so  the  trimming  is  once  a  year.  That's 
 about  it.  So  one  of  my  favorite  plants 
 to  work  with.  Well,  I  hope  that  helps 
 bring  color  to  your  garden.  You  guys,  if 
 you  need  more  help  than  the  inspiration 
 that  you  saw  here,  then  please  check 
 down  below  in  the  description  and  it'll 
 list  all  of  our  contact  information.  And 
 as  you  guys  know,  I  am  a  landscape 
 designer  and  we  do  projects  like  you  see 
 here,  kind  of  building  outdoor  spaces 
 for  folks  along  the  treasure  and  the 
 space  coast.  And  then  we  also  have  a 
 designonly  service  for  areas  outside  of 
 those  areas.  So,  please  reach  out  to  us. 
 And  then  we  recently  added  a  virtual 
 consultation  where  if  you  have  one 
 particular  area  in  your  garden  and 
 you're  just  kind  of  struggling  with  it 
 and  want  to  discuss  or  talk  about  that 
 particular  spot,  then  I  might  be  able  to 
 help  you  with  that  virtually.  So,  check 
 out  all  of  that  information  down  below 
 and  reach  out  to  us.  Hello,  beautiful 
 butterfly.  Uh,  reach  out  to  us  and  we'd 
 be  so  very  happy  to  see  if  we're  a  good 
 fit  for  you  guys.  But  thank  you  so  much 
 for  joining  me  on  today's  video.  If  you 
 like  today's  video,  then  check  out  the 
 one  that  we're  going  to  have  right  here. 
 It's  going  to  be  about  some  beautiful 
 tropical  exotic  palm  trees.  Some  of  my 
 favorites  to  work  with  in  a  garden  and 
 definitely  some  musthaves  to  incorporate 
 into  yours.  Thanks,  guys.  Take  care.

---

 [Music] 
 Well,  hello  gardeners.  Welcome  back  to 
 the  True  Gardening  channel.  And  today's 
 video  is  all  about  the  exotics.  Well, 
 sort  of.  It's  about  the  exotics  of 
 Florida.  These  are  tropical,  I  don't 
 know,  exclamation  marks,  big  punches  of 
 things  that  you  can  add  into  your 
 garden.  That  explosion  of  like  a 
 tropical  flare  that  can  incorporate  into 
 your  garden  that  really  kind  of  sets  it 
 from,  you  know,  luxury  and  beautiful  to, 
 wow,  what  is  that?  Got  to  know  that.  And 
 these  are  some  things  that  you  may  have 
 seen  in  a  garden  center  that  you're 
 like,  oh,  I  like  the  look  of  that,  but  I 
 kind  of  don't  know if  it's  going  to  work 
 with  what  I  have  to  work  with,  you  know, 
 and  so  it  could  be  a  bit  intimidating. 
 So,  these  are  six  of  the  things  that 
 I've  incorporated  into  many  other 
 gardens  as  a  landscape  designer  as  well 
 as  my  very  own  garden.  So,  it's  well 
 worth  the  trouble,  well  worth  trying  to 
 find  and  locate  them  and  put  them  in  key 
 areas  into  your  space  because  they 
 really  do  set  up  a  garden  like  none 
 other.  So,  the  very  first  one  is  this 
 gal  behind  me.  This  is  the  Madagascar 
 palm.  You  guys  may  have  seen  her  in  many 
 previous  videos.  Right  now,  she  is 
 flushing  out  with  beautiful  white  blooms 
 and  this  gorgeous,  gorgeous  leaflet 
 topper  to  all  of  her  very  dramatic  spiky 
 trunks.  She's  dangerous  and  yet 
 beautiful.  So,  I  have  her  an  ideal  spot. 
 I  think  I  was  lucky  enough  to  score  her 
 in  a  garden  center  and  I've  yet  recently 
 gotten  another  one  put  into  a  pot, 
 waiting  for  it  to  kind  of  get  some  size 
 to  it  to  incorporate  into  another 
 section  of  my  garden.  Now,  these  guys 
 come  in  singles,  they  come  in  doubles, 
 they  come  in  multi-  trunks.  Sometimes 
 they'll  have  one  trunk  like  this  that 
 will  sprout  into  multiple  ones.  I  know 
 they  can  be  a  bit  intimidating  into  a 
 garden,  but  if  you  have  just  that  right 
 spot  for  it,  go  ahead  and  put  it  into 
 that  spot  and  let  it  kind  of  be  the 
 feature.  Let  it  be  the  architectural 
 detail  into  a  garden.  Let  it  really  set 
 off  a  space  because  it  really  does.  Now, 
 it's  called  a  Madagascar  palm,  but  it  is 
 not  really  a  palm.  It  is  just  absolutely 
 a  stunning,  stunning,  stunning  tree.  and 
 it  likes  drought  tolerant  conditions. 
 So,  if  you  got  a  spot  in  your  garden 
 that  doesn't  get  a  whole  lot  of  water, 
 ideal.  If  you're  in  an  area  like  my 
 particular  garden  where  everything  in 
 this  space  gets  a  lot  of  water  because  I 
 have  a  lot  of  tropicals  with  it,  just 
 raise  it  a  bit  in  the  garden.  Kind  of 
 give  it  put  it  in  a  little  bit  of  an 
 incline.  What  I've  done  is  I've  brought 
 it  up  about  5  to  6  in  so  it  drains 
 downward  and  really  kind  of  helps  keep 
 this  root  ball  dry  and  it  couldn't  be 
 happier.  Loves  full  sun.  I've  seen  these 
 in  gardens  all  along  from  Key  West  all 
 the  way  to  North  Florida.  So,  you  really 
 can  really  incorporate  these  all  the  way 
 into  that  Merit  Island,  Cocoa  Beach  kind 
 of  area.  So,  anything  north  of  that,  I 
 would  double  check  because  I  think  the 
 freezing  temp  on  these  guys  are  29,  30, 
 but  anything  below  that,  anything  that 
 you  only  get  a  freeze  here  and  there, 
 it's  definitely  worth  having.  Super  slow 
 growers,  so  kind  of  be  patient  with  it. 
 But  gosh,  what  a  stunner  it  makes  in  a 
 garden.  It's  kind  of  unique.  And  then 
 when  it  throws  up  those  individual 
 trunks  like  that  and  that's  all  hairy 
 carry.  It's  almost  like  I  don't  know. 
 It's  my  cousin  into  the  garden.  It's 
 just  kind  of  a  really  cool  feature.  As 
 soon  as  you  walk  out,  it's  the  first 
 thing  that  you  see  amongst  everything 
 else  that  I  have  in  the  garden.  So  I 
 think  it's  definitely  on  my  top  list  of 
 finding  the  perfect  spot  to  incorporate 
 a  Madagascar  palm  into  your  tropical 
 foliage,  tropical  jungle.  Just  make  sure 
 you  put  in  a  few  allowances  for  that 
 particular  tree.  All right,  you  guys.  So 
 for  the  next  plant  that  I  love  to  use 
 and  have  used  multiple  spaces  in  my  own 
 garden  because  of  that  reason  is  the 
 imperialis  burmilad.  Now  I  know 
 burmilads  they  can  get  a  bad  wrap. 
 There's  some  that  run  too  much  and  then 
 die  out  too  often.  This  particular 
 burmilad  I  believe  offers  a  bit  of 
 impact  without  multiplying  into  10,000 
 little  burmilads.  This  is  a  singular 
 trunk.  though  it  is  one  that  lasts  and 
 lives  a  long  time  but  stays  as  a  center 
 its  own  burmilad.  It  doesn't  produce 
 pups  or  whatnot.  The  imperialis  burmilad 
 grow  to  about  4t  tall  by  about  3  to  4 
 foot  wide.  So  you  can  use  it  as  a 
 singular  or  kind  of  like  how  I  have  it 
 here  as  an  entrance  to  my  um  seating 
 section.  This  guy  has  been  here  for 
 about  4  years.  Absolutely  love  it.  I 
 love  them  in  gardens.  They  can  handle 
 full  sun.  And  now  if  you  Google  it,  it 
 says  full  sun,  but  really  this  one  gets 
 direct  full  afternoon  sun.  You  can  see 
 it's  a  little  bit  smaller  and  a  little 
 bit  paler.  So  if  you  guys  have  morning 
 sun  to  midday  sun  with  a  little  bit  of 
 protection,  this  one  gets  a  little  bit 
 of  canopy  coverage,  just  a  tiny  bit  from 
 the  corner  of  my  roof.  And  you  can  see 
 that  this  coloration  is  way  nicer.  Now, 
 it  can  also  handle  full  shade.  So  if  you 
 got  a  full  shade  environment,  this  plant 
 does  fabulous  for  that.  Love  the  purple 
 detail.  I  love  the  kind  of  cylinder  kind 
 of  look,  the  rounded  look  kind  of  gives 
 you  a  whole  sphere  kind  of  look,  but 
 still  upright  and  vertical.  So,  it 
 doesn't  take  up  a  lot  of  space.  So,  any 
 place  near  entrance  way  to  a  walkway  or 
 pathway  or  an  entrance  way  to  a  pool  or 
 fabulous  in  pots.  If  you  guys  want  to 
 create  kind  of  like  put  some  nice  tall 
 cylinder  pots  up  and  then  have  them  kind 
 of  crown  out  to  the  front  of  those,  they 
 make  fabulous  features  for  that.  So, 
 I've  commonly  put  them  in  as  more  of 
 accent  features  around  palm  trees.  So 
 you  can  have  a  palm  tree  in  the  middle 
 and  then  have  three  of  these  guys  around 
 the  base  of  the  palm  tree.  You  can  have 
 the  one  in  the  front  kind  of  angled  out 
 and  the  two  on  the  sides  angled  out  and 
 really  it  gives  that  palm  tree  like  a 
 dynamic  base  looking  like  it's  almost 
 like  part  of the  palm  tree  but  it's  not. 
 A  lot  of  different  ways  that  you  can  use 
 these  as  almost  like  a  little  bit  of  an 
 exclamation  garden.  So  they're  awesome 
 features.  They're  not  like  the 
 Madagascar  palm  that  I  mentioned  earlier 
 where  they're  going  to  kind  of  be  a 
 standalone  feature,  but  they're 
 definitely  almost  a,  like  I  said,  an 
 exclamation  mark  in  the  garden.  Kind  of 
 add  a  little  bit  of  explosion  here,  a 
 little  bit  impact  there.  They're  perfect 
 for  that.  And  then  I  love  that  they 
 offer  you  color  and  their  versatility  to 
 work  in  a  shade  environment  versus  a  sun 
 environment  and  still  perform 
 beautifully  in  both  areas.  So  definitely 
 worth  having.  Um,  they  can  handle  more 
 water  than  a  typical  burmilad,  which  is 
 ideal.  They  will  hold  the  water  in  the 
 cups.  So,  what  I  tell  my  clients  when  we 
 plant  these  is  to  once  a  week  or  every 
 other  week,  just  flush  out  the  water  in 
 the  cups.  So,  if  you  bring  a  hose  out 
 and  you  kind  of  wet  the  inside  of  it, 
 it'll  overflow  and  flow  out  of  the  cups 
 so  you  don't  have  any  kind  of  standing 
 or  sitting  water  in  that  spot.  So,  they 
 work  really,  really  well  with  this. 
 Overall,  maintenance  is  trimming  about 
 three  times  a  year,  four  times  a  year  at 
 best  if  you're  really  a  manicured 
 trimmer.  Obviously,  you  guys  know  I'm 
 not.  So,  this  is  more  of  a  natural  look 
 for  these  guys.  Um,  trimming  just  every 
 few  months  and  I  think  they're  fabulous 
 to  work  with.  So,  Imperialis  burmilads 
 are  definitely  a  go-to  mediumsiz  accent 
 feature  from  my  gardens  and  gardens  that 
 I  plant  for  a  lot  of  my 
 clients.  All  right,  you  guys.  So,  my 
 third  favorite,  and  this  is  I  can't  even 
 say  it's  my  third  favorite  because  I 
 think  it's  like  up  there  with  my  very 
 first  favorite.  I  have  several  of  these 
 in  my  very  own  garden.  Um,  I  always 
 encourage  everyone  to  get  them,  whether 
 you're  going  to  get  them  and  put  them  in 
 the  ground  like  I  have  here  or 
 incorporate  them  into  a  pot  and  then  put 
 them  into  your  landscape.  That  way  you 
 can  pop  them  in  because  they're  a  little 
 bit  not  tolerant  to  some  of  the  colder 
 temps.  So,  if  you're  anything  above  us 
 into  the  North  Melbourne,  Merit  Island, 
 Cocoa  Beach  area,  temperatures  drop  just 
 a  little  bit  too  low.  Anything  below  32 
 will  unfortunately  kill  this  particular 
 plant.  However,  it  is  so  worth  having  it 
 in  a  pot.  They  do  fabulous  in  a  pot. 
 They'll  live  there  for  years  and  years 
 and  years.  But  if  you  put  it  in  a  pot, 
 put  it  on  a  little  stand,  incorporate  it 
 into  your  garden,  you  will  not  be  sorry 
 because  that  rounded  leaf,  that  big  fan 
 of  a  leaf  for  that  kind  of  like  small 
 compact  of  a  tree  sets  off  a  space  so 
 nicely.  Even  when  I  look  out  from  my 
 seating  section,  I  look  out  to  my  whole 
 garden.  My  eye  always  rests  on  this 
 particular  spot  because  the  leaves 
 branch  out.  Everything  is  so  rounded.  It 
 is  so  Alice  and  Wonderland.  I  just 
 absolutely  love  those  big  giant  fans  on 
 such  a  small  tree.  I  feel  like  it  always 
 deserves  this  big  ump  or  this  big  hello, 
 this  big  exclamation  mark  in  a  garden. 
 So,  where  I  can  incorporate  it  as  a 
 landscape  designer,  I  do.  And  of  course, 
 I've  done  the  same  for  my  own  space 
 because  they're  tough.  They're  hearty. 
 The  only  thing  they  don't  like  is  the 
 cold.  So,  without  further  ado,  that  is 
 the  Laquala  palm.  I  feel  so  bad  sharing 
 her  with  you  guys  in  this  kind  of 
 condition.  We've  had  such  severe  winds 
 and  storms  recently  and  you  can  see  a 
 lot  of  the  torn  fronds  because  of  that. 
 They  do  love  a  more  protected 
 environment.  I  have  kind  of  created  a 
 cove  of  palm  trees  around  her  to  protect 
 her.  But  we  have  had  some  doozies 
 lately.  I  mean  you  guys  have  probably 
 seen  the  tornadoes  that  happened  about 
 two  months  almost  three  months  ago  now 
 and  things  are  starting  to  pop  back.  You 
 can  see  all  this  new  growth  is 
 absolutely  stunning  but  the  older  growth 
 is  not  there  yet.  So,  this  is  a  dwarf 
 tree.  So,  if  you  are  going  to  put  it  in 
 a  pot,  okay,  to  start  with  the  3  gallon 
 size,  but  put  it  in  a  pedestal  so  that 
 way  you  can  kind  of  see  it  amongst  your 
 garden  and  then  bring  that  bad  boy  in 
 when  we  get,  you  know,  high  temps.  So, 
 they  create  new  fronds.  You  get  about  10 
 new  fronds  a  year.  So,  it  really  can  be 
 a  nice  dynamic  clustering  of  these  big 
 giant  leaves.  And  no  matter  what  kind  of 
 landscape  you  have  in  the  garden, 
 there's  something  about  this  leaf  style. 
 It  always  attracts  the  eye  because  all 
 these  other  fronds  are  just  so 
 different.  They're  wispy  and  they're 
 maybe  a  darker  color  or  maybe  they're 
 more  vertical,  whatever  the  case  may  be. 
 Not  many  fronds  have  this  kind  of  look 
 to  it.  So,  it  stands  alone  in  a  garden. 
 And  anything  in  Florida  in  a  palm  family 
 that  stands  alone  in  the  garden  is 
 always  worth  having.  A  little  bit  of  a 
 diva.  I  get  it.  you  got  to  take  it  in, 
 you  know,  during  the  cold  temps,  but 
 well  worth  it  because  it  is  a  unique 
 species  in  the  garden.  So,  finding  some 
 key  areas  to  have  them,  easy  access  to 
 get  them  in  and  out  if  you  need  to  move 
 them  around,  but  well  worth  it.  Grows 
 very,  very  slow,  but  we'll  get  all  the 
 way  up  into  the  14  15t  range.  So,  you'll 
 really  get  to  see  they're  absolutely 
 stunners  in  a  nice  long  buffer.  So, 
 don't  be  afraid  to  incorporate  them.  If 
 you  see  them  in  the  nurseries, 
 definitely  pick  one  of  those  guys  up 
 because  they're  worth  it.  All right,  you 
 guys.  So,  this  summer  bloomer  probably 
 doesn't  need  much  introduction,  but  I 
 absolutely  love  to  incorporate  it  into  a 
 garden  setting.  Whether  it  is  on  a 
 pedestal  amongst  the  garden  if  you  got 
 some  great  sun  or  it's  like  here  on  its 
 own  in  a  pot,  handles  the  drought  like 
 nobody's  business.  So,  if  you've  got  a 
 pool  deck  that  you're  like,  "Hey,  I'm 
 not  a  hand  waterer  by  any  means."  This 
 might  be  your  grow.  Just  tons  of 
 foliage.  You  couldn't  put  one  more  bloom 
 on  them  during  the  summer.  Now,  during 
 the  winter,  they're  pretty  much  bald. 
 There's  nothing  to  love  about  them  in 
 the  winter  other  than  this  cool  trunk 
 line  that  they  have.  They  all  have  like 
 a  really  cool  bonsai  looking  kind  of 
 trunk  line  to  them.  They  can  live  in  a 
 pot  for  years  and  years  and  years  and 
 years,  unlike  a  lot  of  potted  plants. 
 The  desert  rose  is  an  ideal  potted  plant 
 to  incorporate  into  your  garden.  Now, 
 I've  seen  them  many  places  where  they're 
 planted  into  the  ground  of  really  good 
 drainage,  but  in  my  opinion,  I  prefer 
 them  in  a  pot.  They're  really  well 
 controlled  in  a  pot.  They  can  handle  the 
 cold  temps.  They  can  handle  the  hot 
 temps.  they  can  handle  no  water.  They  do 
 not  like  too  much  water.  So,  when  you  do 
 water  them,  you  water  them  kind  of  like 
 a  bugan  villia.  You  put  water  into 
 around  the  the  base  of  the  pot.  You  let 
 it  flow  out  of  the  pot  and  voila.  You  do 
 that  no  more  than  once  a  week.  Um,  you 
 want  to  make  sure  that  it  does  not  get 
 too  much  water  and  it  will  bloom  like 
 crazy.  If  you  fertilize  it,  it  loves  the 
 BGI  buganvilla  fertilizer.  That's  a 
 perfect  blend  for  it.  So  go  ahead  and 
 hit  it  with  some  granular  along  the  base 
 or  some  osmmaote.  Either  one  of  those, 
 they  love  a  little  bit  of  extra  feeding. 
 And  that  way  all  summer  long  it  goes 
 from  one  blooming  cycle  into  the  next 
 and  to  the  next  into  the  next  and  then 
 you  just  can't  I  mean  like  right  now 
 it's  like  I  can't  I  can't  bloom  anymore. 
 It's  just  like  incredibly  beautiful  with 
 its  pops  of  color  and  pops  of  blooms. 
 And  you  can  put  it  in  the  toughest  of 
 places  in  the  garden.  I  have  one  right 
 by  my  driveway  that's  a  little  small  one 
 that's  getting  started.  I  have  one  over 
 here  at  the  edge  of  the  patio  that  gets 
 no  love  at  all.  And  then  I  have  this  one 
 right  here  on  this  wall  where  I'm  trying 
 to  kind  of  soften  my  pool  wall  a  little 
 bit  and  it  does  a  great  job  here.  I  had 
 one  in  the  ground  years  ago  that  had  a 
 beautiful  trunk  and  had  a  nice  long 
 branching.  I  swear  it  had  such  an  Asian 
 bonsai  kind  of  look  that  I  thought  it 
 was  the  most  magnificent  thing  ever.  I 
 put  it  in  the  ground  at  the  top  of  a 
 waterfall  feature  and  it  just  got  too 
 much  water  over  time  and  it  just  didn't 
 do  well.  So,  I  lost  it  over  time.  That's 
 the  reason  why  I  say  kind  of  keep  them 
 in  pots.  That  way,  you  can  control  the 
 drainage  and  control  the  amount  of 
 water.  But,  they  will  last  in  pots  for 
 so  many  years  that  you  can  kind  of  pass 
 it  on  to  your  kids  if  you  want  if  you 
 grow  them  in  your  garden  because  I  just 
 think  they're  just  such  stunners.  So, 
 the  desert  rose  plant  in  the  multitude 
 of  colors  that  it  comes  in.  I'm  just  a 
 pink  girl,  so  I  love  the  pinks.  But  it 
 comes  in  so  many  varieties  of  colors. 
 And  if  you  incorporate  it  into  a  sunny 
 spot  into  your  garden  on  like  a  column, 
 like  I  do  the  buganilla.  I  have  a  bug 
 and  villia  out  front  that  I  have  on  a 
 column  and  it's  a  little  pop  that's 
 there.  It's  just  that  little  pop  along  a 
 walkway  that  adds  some  interest.  Do  the 
 same  thing  with  these  guys.  Just  along  a 
 walkway,  put  them  on  a  pedestal  and  they 
 just  kind  of  show  up  and  say,  "Well, 
 hello  summer."  They're  perfect  for  that. 
 So,  do  not  sleep  on  the  desert  roses. 
 you  see  a  beautiful  one  in  your  garden 
 center  this  summer,  they're  definitely 
 worth 
 having.  So,  the  fifth  species  in  today's 
 video  is  the  Capernicia  fencis  palm. 
 Now,  this  is  in  my  front  yard.  It  is  a 
 stunner.  Everybody  always  thinks  it's  a 
 Bismaria  palm.  Um,  which  is  absolutely 
 gorgeous  in  its  own  right.  This  one  has 
 some  different  characteristics,  and  I'll 
 explain  why,  but  is  it  not  just 
 fantastic?  I  mean,  look  at  this  frrawn. 
 I'm  going  sit  on  this  boulder  right  here 
 so  you  guys  can  see,  but  look  at  this 
 frrawn  and  the  size  of  this  frrawn.  The 
 dynamic  kind  of  crown  shaft  that  it 
 offers  and  the  fact  that  it's  all  nice 
 and  compact.  I  don't  have  to  trim  it 
 this  way.  It  grows  this  way.  Real 
 vertical,  real  compact.  And  those  fronds 
 are  so  close  together.  They're  almost 
 overlapping  themselves,  which  gives  you 
 even  a  more  of  that  dynamic  kind  of 
 look.  So,  I  love  love  love  this  tree.  It 
 has  a  silver  tone  to  it.  The  older  it 
 gets,  the  more  silver  it  becomes.  Grows 
 exceptionally  slow.  So,  it's  definitely 
 going  to  be  a  feature  palm.  Wrap  other 
 palms  around  it.  Let  it  be  the 
 centerpiece  kind  of  like  I  did  here.  I 
 put  some  curved  foxtail  palms  around  the 
 side  of  it  to  kind  of  almost  like  kind 
 of  create  a  frame  around  it.  It  is  a  bit 
 of  a  pricey  palm,  a  little  hard  palm  to 
 find,  but  they're  definitely  out  there 
 along  the  Treasure  and  Space  Coast. 
 Definitely  worth  picking  it  up.  You 
 don't  need  a  ton  of  them  to  make  an 
 impact.  One  will  do  the  job.  So,  I  think 
 it's  well  worth  it  because  there's  very 
 few  palms  in  Florida  where  one  will  do 
 the  job  of  making  the  impact  that  we're 
 looking  for  and  this  one  will  absolutely 
 do  that.  So,  it's  compernicia  fencis. 
 It's  from  Cuba.  It's  a  rare  palm,  but 
 it's  definitely  really  top  top  choice 
 when  I'm  looking  for  something  like  a 
 standout  feature  for  somebody's  front 
 yard  or  a  corner  backyard  garden.  It's 
 ideal  for  that.  Grows  about  a  foot  to  a 
 foot  and  a  half  a  year.  So,  really  slow 
 when  it  comes  to  palm  growth.  The  one 
 thing  I  will  say  is  that  the  crown 
 itself  of  the  palm  is  heavier  than  the 
 actual  smallness  of  the  trunk.  When  we 
 planted  it,  we  staked  it  with  some  rebar 
 and  really  kind  of  holding  it  in  and 
 we've  gotten  some  really  really  bad 
 storms  over  the  winter  months.  So,  it's 
 moved  more  than  I'd  like.  So,  if  you 
 plant  it,  make  sure  that  you  kind  of 
 secure  it  in  really  well  because  of  how 
 heavy  that  canopy  is  and  you  can't  trim 
 back  all  those  fronds  to  make  sure  that 
 you  keep  the  palm  healthy.  Definitely 
 make  sure  that  it's  nice  and  tucked  and 
 secured  in  right  off  the  bat  and  then 
 you'll  have  no  problems  with  this  tree. 
 So  the  capernicia  felencis  is  an  ideal 
 palm  to  work  with.  Give  it  some  room  to 
 grow  because  this  bad  boy  will  get  some 
 size.  It  may  be  for  your  children  or 
 your  grandchildren  when  it  finally  gets 
 there,  but  it  will  get  some  size  to  it. 
 But  even  at  a  small  height  of  when  I 
 brought  it  in,  which  was  around  6'  7t 
 tall,  it  was  a  stunner  right  off  the 
 bat.  So  no matter  how  small  it  is,  put 
 it  in  the  ground,  let  it  take  off.  It 
 will  take  some  time,  but  it  will  always 
 be  a  stunner.  Whether  it's  three  foot  or 
 whether  it's  20  foot,  it's  just 
 absolutely  gorgeous.  So,  definitely  one 
 of  my  palms  to  go  to  as  a  landscape 
 designer.  And  speaking  of  landscape 
 designer,  this  is  what  we  do  every 
 single  day.  We  create  gardens  just  like 
 you  see  here,  just  like  you  see  in  my 
 own  space  and  the  gardens  that  I  share 
 here  on  YouTube.  We  are  a  landscape 
 design  company.  My  husband,  myself  own 
 our  company.  My  son,  and  my 
 daughter-in-law  work  within  it.  So,  we 
 are  a  family-owned  business.  We  have  a 
 full-time  landscape  crew  of  wonderful 
 men  that  we've  worked  with  for  15  to  20 
 years  now  and  we  do  this  every  single 
 day  creating  outdoor  spaces  along  the 
 Treasure  and  Space  Coast.  Um  we  are  in 
 Vero  Beach,  Florida,  zone  10A.  So  if 
 you're  looking  to  have  some  landscape 
 work  done  along  from  all  the  way  from 
 Jupiter  South  all  the  way  up  to  the 
 Melbourne  Vieira  area,  reach  out  to  us. 
 We'd  be  happy  to  meet  with  you  and  look 
 to  see  if  we  can  help  you.  If  you're 
 outside  that  coverage,  do  not  lose 
 heart.  We  do  have  a  landscape  design 
 only  service  that  that  we  can  help  you 
 with.  And  then  if  you're  looking  for 
 something  smaller,  maybe  you  just  have  a 
 little  area  or  a  little  nook  or  a 
 courtyard  or  a  front  entrance  that 
 you're  just  kind  of  struggling  with,  you 
 kind  of  don't  know  what  to  do  with,  we 
 also  have  virtual  consults,  virtual 
 meetings  where  we'll  look  over  pictures 
 together,  discuss  some  options  for  that 
 particular  space  and  just  something  that 
 you  can  kind  of  take  away  and  do  do  some 
 of  your  own  shopping  and  do  a  little  bit 
 of  DIY.  I'll  put  all  of  our  contact 
 information  down  below  if  that's 
 something  that  you're  looking  for.  Check 
 us  out.  see  if  we're  a  good  fit  for  what 
 you're  wanting  to  see  in  your  garden. 
 So,  but  for  now,  let's  talk  about  the 
 last  palm  in  the  garden.  All  right,  you 
 guys.  So,  the  last  but  not  least  species 
 in  today's  video  is  the  cold  coconut, 
 also  called  the  Alfred  palm.  I  know  this 
 big  mama  jama  looks  kind  of  bit 
 intimidating  because  it  has  been  here 
 for  almost  20  years.  So,  it  is 
 established,  it  is  big,  it  is  beautiful. 
 You  can  buy  this  guy  in  your  typical 
 nursery  in  a  15gon  size,  in  a  25gallon 
 size,  all  the  way  up  into  the  45gallon 
 size  and  of  course  field  grown  if  uh 
 you're  ever  so  lucky  and  you  want  to  put 
 him  in  the  ground  like  this  kind  of  size 
 right  here.  They  grow  super  slow,  super 
 When  I  say  super  slow,  they  grow  super 
 slow.  So  if  you  got  a  spot  in  your 
 garden  where  you  kind  of  want  to  block 
 out  maybe  a  neighbor,  this  kind  of  my 
 situation  right  here,  my  neighbor's 
 entertaining  area  is  directly  where 
 Bryce  is  standing  and  my  entertaining 
 area  is  directly  where  behind  where  I'm 
 standing.  And  so  I  wanted  something 
 above  this  wall,  just  slightly  above 
 this  wall  to  kind  of  give  me  coverage. 
 So  you  can  see  it's  just  barely  outgrown 
 that  coverage  after  all  of  these  years. 
 So  it  stays  where  you  put  it.  And  you 
 kind  of  got  to  love  a  Florida  landscape 
 that  does  that  because  there's  so  few 
 things.  Normally  you  go  to  bed  one  night 
 and  then  it's  too  big.  So  this  guy  stays 
 the  exact  size  that  you  need  it  to  stay 
 for  a  lot  of  the  spots  in  in  gardens.  So 
 this  guy's  solving  problems.  I  love 
 plants  or  trees  that  solve  problems  in  a 
 garden.  So,  if  you  need  something  to 
 kind  of  give  you  a  big  thick  canopy  of 
 coverage  for  one  particular  spot  and  you 
 need  to  stay  that  way  for  a  long,  long 
 time,  then  this  is  your  go-to  palm  tree. 
 This  has  a  really  cool  trunk  base  at  the 
 bottom,  kind  of  like  a  bottle  base,  and 
 then  the  canopy  opens  up  and  really 
 branches  out  nice  and  wide.  So,  it's  not 
 related  to  the  coconut.  It's  called  the 
 coconut  because  of  the  fronds.  The 
 fronds  have  a  similar  look  as  our 
 typical  coconut  palms.  The  benefit  to 
 this  bad  boy  is  its  versatility.  Can 
 grow  in  the  shade,  can  grow  in  the  sun, 
 can  grow  in  the  cold,  can  grow  in  the 
 heat.  I  don't  know  where  it  can  grow, 
 but  yeah,  all  the  way  into  freezing 
 temperatures  into  the  20s  and  not  blink 
 of  an  eye,  it  can  handle  those  kind  of 
 temps.  So,  those  of  you  guys  who  are  up 
 north  that  Jacksonville  area,  you're  up 
 in,  you  know,  Cocoa,  Merit  Island,  all 
 of  those  sections  get  hit  or  miss 
 whether  you're  going to  get  one  of  those 
 really,  really  cold  snaps.  And  but  you 
 want  that  palm  look,  you  want  that  big 
 canopy  look.  The  cold  coconut,  the 
 Alfred  palm  is  a  great  choice  for  that 
 particular  thing,  especially  if  you  need 
 a  tree  to  kind  of  grow  at  a  slow  rate 
 and  be  thick  in  a  spot.  So,  grows  6  in 
 to  a  max  a  foot  a  year  in  the  perfect 
 environment.  They  really,  really  do  a 
 fantastic  job  of  kind  of  giving  you  a 
 dense  bit  of  coverage.  I'll  get  Bryce  to 
 pop  in  a  video  or  a  picture  of  what  it 
 looks  like  from  the  inside  of  my  seating 
 section  looking  out  to  this  area  and 
 what  it  looks  like  here.  So  you  kind  of 
 really  get  a  good  visual  of  what  we're 
 kind  of  softening  to  block.  Not  that  we 
 don't  like  our  neighbors.  You  guys  know 
 I  love  everybody,  but  it  is  nice  to  have 
 a  little  bit  of  buffering  between  each 
 entertaining  space  as  we  both  enjoy 
 entertaining.  So  they  love  it,  we  love 
 it.  Makes  happy  neighbors  a  great  choice 
 for  a  particular  border  garden  because 
 of  what  it  offers.  So  all  right  you 
 guys.  So,  you  let  me  know  what  your 
 favorite  tropical  was  that  we  talked 
 about  today  or  if  there's  any  others 
 that  are  in  your  list  that  you've  done, 
 you've  taken  chances  on  and  you're  like, 
 "Oh  my  gosh,  this  has  to  be  on  the  list 
 for  next  time  because  you  absolutely 
 loved  it  or  it  was  just  a  humdinger  and 
 really  really  hit  home  with  exactly  what 
 you're  looking  for  in  the  garden."  So, 
 please  leave  it  in  the  comments  down 
 below  and  I  would  love  to  introduce  it 
 in  the  next  video.  So,  we  will  see  you 
 guys  every  Saturday  and  Sunday.  So,  be 
 sure  to  like,  subscribe,  hit  that  little 
 notification  bell,  and  we  will  see  you 
 in  the  very  next  video  that  we  do.  Check 
 out  the  last  video  that  we  posted.  If 
 you  guys  like  this  kind  of  vibe,  this 
 kind  of  garden  tour,  um  you'll  enjoy  the 
 previous  video  about  how  to  make  your 
 garden  tropical.

---

 [Music] 
 Well,  hello  true  gardeners.  Welcome 
 back.  Today  we  are  in  my  backyard,  Vero 
 Beach,  Florida,  zone  10A.  And  summer  is 
 here.  If  you  haven't  felt  it  already, 
 you're  feeling  it  now.  Summer  is  here. 
 And  I  want to  talk  to  you  about  my 
 favorite  five  blooming  perennials  that  I 
 use  in  my  garden  and  so  many  others.  As 
 a  landscape  designer,  these  are  kind  of 
 my  go-to  flowering  power  punch  of 
 bloomers  that  I'll  incorporate  into  a 
 lot  of  my  landscapes  along  the  Treasure 
 and  Space  Coast.  So,  these  are  plants 
 and  trees  that  are  going  to  do  well  as 
 far  south  as  Key  West  all  the  way  up  to 
 the  Merit  Island,  Cocoa  Beach,  kind  of 
 in  that  environment  kind  of  area.  So, 
 all  up  the  coast,  they're  going  to  do 
 fabulous.  And  so  I  thought  I  would  point 
 out  my  favorites  and  why.  So  the  very 
 first  one,  if  you  hadn't  noticed,  is  the 
 lion's  tail.  This  is  a  fabulous  bloomer. 
 Love,  love,  love  it.  You  can  plant  it  in 
 a  nice  little  cluster  like  I  have  here 
 by  a  walkway.  It  really  produces  a  power 
 punch  of  that  orange  kind  of  bloom.  And 
 I  just  absolutely  love  it  in  the  garden. 
 I've  only  had  this  one  species.  I 
 planted  as  one  sevengallon  plant.  Clumps 
 beautifully.  produces  these  vibrant 
 blooms.  I  trim  it  about  three  times  a 
 year.  So,  really,  really  easy  to  keep  it 
 manageable.  And  that  says  a  lot 
 considering  where  it's  at.  It's  along 
 this  little  pathway.  So,  super  hard  to 
 keep  something  here  that  isn't  going  to 
 take  over.  Like  a  fire  spike  might 
 encroach  too  much  in  this  area.  So,  this 
 lion's  tail,  I  think,  is  just  such  a 
 fantastic  little  specimen  for  the 
 garden.  This  is  kind  of  what  the 
 standard  summer  bloom  is.  But  you  guys, 
 if  you're  in  full  sun,  this  beauty  would 
 be  covered  in  orange  tiger  tail  kind  of 
 blooms.  But  what  I  do  love  about  it, 
 even  when  it's  not  blooming,  you  got 
 these  gorgeous  green  leaves  on  it.  It's 
 absolutely  a  stunner.  Now,  anything  with 
 big  leaves,  the  bugs  can  find  a  home  for 
 so  they  can  live  underneath.  So, 
 definitely  it's  one  of  those  that  you 
 want  to  keep  an  eye  on  it.  You  know,  add 
 a  drench  to  it  if  you  need  it.  That  way, 
 it's  it's  kind  of  protected  over  time. 
 Fertilize  it  so  it's  nice  and  a  strong 
 plant.  But  overall,  it  is  an  easy  to 
 care  for  tropical.  Trim  it  very,  very 
 little.  Let  it  flush  out.  Let  it  bloom. 
 It  will  bloom  all  season  long.  Loves, 
 loves,  loves  a  blooming  fertilizer  twice 
 to  three  times  a  year.  And  you  guys  know 
 I  love  fertilizing  in  March,  June, 
 September  time  frame.  That  really, 
 really  does  a  good  job  of  really  kind  of 
 keeping  everything  lush  and  tropical. 
 So,  do  not  sleep  on  the  lion's  tail 
 plant.  I  absolutely  love  it.  You  know,  I 
 like  to  keep  mine  pretty  mounded.  So, 
 think  about  like  a  mushroom  top.  So  you 
 kind  of  want  to  allow  it  to  be  taller  at 
 the  top.  Find  out  where  you  want  it  to 
 be.  This  guy  will  grow  all  the  way  up  to 
 eight  foot  if  you  let  it.  But  this  is  a 
 perfect  height  for  me.  I  kind  of  just 
 wanted  it  to  cover  the  hose  reel  for 
 when  you're  walking  around  the  corner. 
 Keep  it  a  little  high  at  the  top.  And 
 then  along  the  corners,  you'll  start 
 trimming  along  these  edges.  So  you'll 
 make  sure  you  trim  and  keep  these  side 
 areas  nice  and  tight  and  tucked.  So  you 
 trim  shorter  here,  a  little  longer  here, 
 a  little  longer  here,  a  little  longer 
 here,  and  the  longest  here.  And  think 
 about  a  mushroom.  That's  kind  of  the 
 look  that  you  want.  The  more  you  trim 
 these,  the  more  they'll  bloom.  They're 
 absolutely  love  to  be  touched  up  and 
 trimmed.  So,  I  trim  mine  about  every  3 
 months,  sometimes  four  months,  but  if  I 
 trim  them  more  often,  they'd  be  happier. 
 So,  it's  up  to  you  guys  on  how  you  like 
 to  maintain  them.  Because  they're  near  a 
 walkway,  I  do  trim  them  as  needed  based 
 on  my  walkway.  Fabulous,  fabulous 
 growers.  Keep  them  around  four,  five, 
 six  foot  tall.  Ideal  size.  They  do  love 
 it.  So,  now  let's  go  check  out  the  next 
 one. 
 So,  as  we  walk  together  from  the 
 backyard  to  the  front  yard  to  look  at 
 the  next  blooming  plant,  when  to  ask  you 
 guys  to  please  like  and  subscribe.  As 
 most  of  you  guys  know  that  have  been 
 with  my  channel  for  a  while  that  we  were 
 hacked  a  couple  weeks  ago.  So,  we  are 
 starting  fresh,  brand  new  with  new 
 content  for  you  all.  And  we  will  be 
 publishing  two  videos.  Yes,  I  said  it. 
 Two  videos  every  single  week.  So,  every 
 Saturday  and  Sunday  will  be  a  new  video 
 from  your  girl,  True  Gardener.  and  I'll 
 do  my  best  to  answer  some  comments  that 
 you  guys  have  put  in.  That's  such  great 
 great  comments  and  things  that  I've  run 
 across  as  a  landscape  designer.  So,  if 
 this  is  your  vibe,  then  stick  around 
 because  that  is  what  we're  doing  here. 
 We  are  talking  about  tropicals.  We're 
 talking  about  jungle  inspired  gardens. 
 We're  talking  about  resort  style  garden 
 landscapes.  That  is  what  we  do  on  this 
 channel.  So,  I  will  see  you  guys  every 
 single  Saturday  if  you  hit  that  little 
 bell.  But  now,  let's  get  into  the 
 blooming 
 plants.  Can  you  guys  see  that  bloom  up 
 there? 
 All  right.  So,  it's  probably  no  wonder 
 why  the  Brazilian  red  cloaks  are  one  of 
 my  top  top top  choices  when  it  comes  to 
 blooming  plants.  Now,  I  do  know  this  is 
 not  technically  your  small  layered 
 blooming  plant.  This  is  a  grouped 
 blooming,  perfect  for  buffer  plantings, 
 perfect  for  big  clusters.  It  does  not 
 need  to  be  this  big.  This  is  just  kind 
 of  what  I  needed  for  this  particular 
 spot  in  my  garden.  But  there's  many  of 
 places  that  I've  created  this  in 
 clusters  where  I  needed  something  five 
 foot  by  5  foot  and  it's  an  ideal  plant 
 grouping  to  work  with.  So  don't  let  this 
 intimidate  you  to  the  back.  They  bloom 
 whether  they're  here  or  whether  they're 
 there.  They're  absolutely  fantastic 
 bloomers.  This  one  just  went  through  a 
 series  of  a  heavy  bloom  season  during 
 the  spring  and  now  it's  kind  of  coming 
 back  and  it's  getting  ready  to  pop  out 
 with  new  color  again.  They'll  go  through 
 that  cycle.  So  I  hate  that  we  missed  But 
 I'll  get  Bryce  to  pop  up  some  pictures 
 of  what  that  looks  like  when  they're  in 
 full  gorgeous  bloom.  They're  going  to  go 
 through  bloom.  Those  blooms  last  several 
 months.  So,  it'll  have  tons  and  tons  of 
 color  for  several  months.  Then  you'll 
 have  about  a  month,  maybe  6  weeks  before 
 it  starts  to  really  flush  out.  But  this 
 is  the  in  between  period.  And  you  can 
 still  see  we  have  top  layer  blooms  up 
 there  that  are  remaining.  So,  if  you're 
 looking  for  something  that's  going  to 
 give  you  great  color  in  your  garden,  and 
 maybe  a  bonus,  if  you  need  something 
 that's  going  to  kind  of  create  a  little 
 bit  of  buffering  from  you  or  your 
 neighbor  or  that  perfect  spot  outside 
 your  kitchen  window  where  you  might  be 
 facing  one  of  your  neighbors  kitchen 
 window,  this  is  an  ideal  plant  to  use. 
 It  has  gorgeous,  gorgeous  green  foliage 
 when  it's  not  in  bloom.  So  you're  not 
 you're  kind  of  not  missing  out  on 
 anything  because  this  color  and  this 
 this  big  giant  leaf  is  like  double  size 
 of  my  hand.  Gives  you  that  tropical 
 feel.  You  can  propagate  this  plant.  You 
 can  just  cut  off  one  of  these  limbs  that 
 you  see  here.  You  can  cut  off  one  of 
 these  limbs  here  right  between  the 
 nodes.  Cut  that  guy  off.  Peel  off  the 
 bottom  three  leaves.  Put  them  right  into 
 the  ground.  A  little  extra  water.  Six 
 weeks  later  you  have  a  brand  new  plant. 
 So  it  is  or  a  gift.  That's  right,  Bryce. 
 It's  an  ideal  thing  to  have  in  your 
 garden.  let  it  cluster  and  then 
 propagate  it  throughout  the  rest  of  your 
 garden.  So,  to  me,  this  is  not  just  a 
 awesome  bloomer,  but  it's  definitely  a 
 moneysaver  when  it  comes  to  being  able 
 to  use  it  in  several  areas  of  your 
 garden  or  give  away  to  family  and 
 friends.  So,  Brazilian  red  cloaks.  Now, 
 they  can  handle  temperatures  all  the  way 
 into  the  low30s,  just  around  that 
 freezing  level,  and  they  start  kind  of 
 getting  really  yucky.  So,  you  might  get 
 some  burn  back  on  them,  but  overall, 
 they  can  handle  it.  When  they  become 
 thicker  clusters,  they  can  handle  windy 
 areas  like  nobody's  business.  Initially, 
 they're  going  to  struggle.  They're  going 
 to  get  a  little bit  windburnt,  but  let 
 them  become  thick  little  groupings  like 
 I  have  here  because  this  particular  spot 
 is  a  very  windy  spot.  If  you  have 
 courtyards  or  maybe  a  wall  planting 
 around  your  pool  area,  have  them  pop  up 
 over  top  of  a  wall.  I'll  get  Bryce  to 
 incorporate  a  picture  of  what  that  looks 
 like.  And  they  just  kind  of  give  you 
 that  next  tier  of  coverage  right  above 
 that  or  above  a  fence  ideal  to  kind  of 
 really  soften  those  hard  edges  of  any 
 kind  of  hard  structure  like  that.  But 
 Brazilian  red  cloaks  are  definitely  one 
 of  my  go-tos  when  I'm  incorporating  them 
 into  my  landscape  designs  through  all 
 along  projects  that  I  do  through  the 
 Treasure  and  Space  Coast.  Go-to  if 
 you're  looking  to  create  some 
 brightness,  more  of  a  green  and  white 
 pattern.  I'm  getting  a  lot  of  clients 
 who  are  asking  me  for  that,  which  I  love 
 that  kind  of  look  where  it's  green, 
 different  shades  of  green,  and  then  pops 
 of  white  with  the  blooms.  Those  last  two 
 are  going  to  be  white  bloomers,  and  I 
 think  they're  just  going  to  be  stunning 
 in  any  garden.  All right,  you  guys.  So 
 the  next  one  is  the  dwarf  fire  bush.  I 
 absolutely  love  this  guy.  I  think  that 
 it  is  a  fantastic  plant  grouping.  This 
 one  really  blooms  this  gorgeous  red  and 
 orange  tone.  So  this  is  the  dwarf 
 variety,  believe  it  or  not,  of  the  fire 
 bush.  So  this  is  not  the  native  variety, 
 but  you  cannot  tell  that  to  the 
 butterflies  and  the  birds  because  they 
 absolutely  adore  this  plant.  They're 
 literally  covered.  I'm  sure  we've  scared 
 them  off  as  you  know  running  through 
 here,  but  they  bloom  10  to  12  months  out 
 of  the  year.  Yeah,  you  heard  it  right. 
 Even  in  the  winter,  they'll  pop  off  with 
 blooms.  But  this  time  of  the  year  is 
 when  they  really  get  going  with  tons  and 
 tons  of  blooms.  I'll  list  the  pros  and 
 the  cons  of  this  kind  of  plant.  So, 
 first  to  tell  you  a  little  bit  about  it. 
 It  is  a 
 dwarf.  I  know  why  it's  called  dwarf  uh 
 fire  bush  is  because  it  can  be 
 maintained  as  little  as  3  foot  tall.  So 
 right  now  it's  five  foot  plus  because 
 I'm  5  foot  six  and  it's  really  reaching 
 that  kind  of  height  in  the  middle.  You 
 can  maintain  this  easily  at  three  foot 
 tall.  It  can  be  kept  dense  from  the  top 
 all  the  way  to  the  bottom.  Now  if  you 
 try  to  maintain  something  that's  not  a 
 dwarf  plant  at  3t  tall,  you'll  have 
 nothing  but  wood  stocks  to  it  and  maybe 
 a  little  bit  of  coverage  at  the  top.  If 
 we  cut  this  all  the  way  down  to  3t,  it 
 would  flush  out  from  the  bottom  all  the 
 way  to  the  top.  So  it  allows  you  to  keep 
 it  the  way  you  want  to  keep  it.  But  it 
 doesn't  mean  that  it  won't  outgrow  a 
 dwarf  size.  So  it'll  grow  all  the  way  to 
 10  or  12t  tall.  I've  actually  done 
 plantings  where  I've  created  a  backyard 
 all  the  way  around  fence  buffer  with 
 these  guys  because  because  the  clients 
 wanted  butterflies  and  wanted  birds  and 
 and  this  is  a  great  bit  of  foliage  for 
 that.  So  we  did  a  nice  looped  kind  of 
 all  the  way  around  the  property 
 perimeter  buffer  with  these  and  popped 
 palms  big  palms  out  of  them  and  it  was 
 absolutely  stunning  because  they  had 
 constant  constant  color.  So,  these  are 
 actually  one  of  my  favorite  plants  for 
 that  particular  reason  because  they  can 
 stay  dense,  they  can  stay  full,  and  they 
 can  handle  filtered  light  and  full  sun. 
 They  do  bloom  far  better  in  full  sun 
 environments.  They  can  handle  a  good 
 amount  of  moisture.  So,  if  the  rest  of 
 your  landscaping  needs  3  to  4  days  of 
 irrigation  of  water  every  single  day, 
 these  guys  will  be  okay  in  that  kind  of 
 environment.  Or  if  you're  in  an 
 environment  where  they  only  gets  2  days 
 a  week  of  water,  again,  they're  going  to 
 do  just  fine.  So  they  can  handle  quite  a 
 bit  of  um  different  environments  and  and 
 still  bloom  and  be  their  beautiful 
 cells.  So  dwarf  fire  bush  are  on  my  list 
 of  gorgeous  bloomers  and  of  course  such 
 a  beautiful  butterfly 
 attractant.  So  for  my  next  favorite 
 blooming  plant  is  the  pin  wheel  jasmine. 
 You  know  it  really  doesn't  need  much 
 introduction.  I  love  love love  this 
 plant.  It  is  mainly  the  only  jasmine 
 that  I  do  use.  I'm  not  a  very  big  fan  of 
 some  of  the  other  ones  that  kind  of  go 
 sprawling  a  little  bit  crazy.  I  love  the 
 clumping  variety  and  these  do  a  fabulous 
 job  for  kind  of  pulling  together  a 
 cluster  of  one  bright  pop  of  color  in  a 
 garden.  What  I  love  most  about  these 
 particular  plants  are  their  versatility. 
 This  can  handle  full  sun  like  where 
 we're  at  right  now  or  it  can  handle 
 filtered  light  and  still  bloom.  So,  if 
 you're  looking  for  something  to  kind  of 
 create  a  bright  spot  into  the  garden, 
 they're  fabulous  for  that.  They  give  you 
 this  pin  wheelel  kind  of  bloom.  It's 
 just  so  gorgeous.  and  it  floods  the 
 plant  with  it.  Now,  it  does  only  bloom 
 in  the  spring  and  the  summer.  You  will 
 get  no  blooms  in  the  winter  on  this  guy. 
 Um,  and  then  also  it  does  thin  out  too 
 during  the  winter  months  where  I've  had 
 a  lot  of  clients  say,  "Well,  you  know, 
 I'm  okay  with  it  kind  of  becoming  a 
 little  bit  thin  during  the  winter  months 
 because  maybe  they're  not  here  or  they 
 have  other  things  that  they  can 
 appreciate  in  the  garden."  So, 
 definitely  keep  that  in  mind  because 
 they're  not  their  best  during  that  time 
 of  the  year.  But  the  rest  of  the  year, 
 showstoppers.  This  bloom  is  so  bright 
 white  that  I  can  see  this  at  night.  It's 
 amazing  how  bright  this  little  area  is 
 lit  up  along  this  Kucia  hedge.  So,  don't 
 sleep  on  the  pin  wheelel  jasmine  because 
 they're  absolutely  stunners.  And  you  can 
 kind  of  keep  them  compact  in  one  area. 
 I'll  get  Bryce  to  pop  in  some  pictures 
 on  the  inside  where  I  have  them.  And  all 
 I  did  was  like  cluster  two  or  three 
 together  and  kind  of  create  little 
 spots,  the  little  pockets  for  them  to 
 really  take  off  and  give  me  those  big 
 white  blossoms.  and  it's  normally  in  a 
 dark  spot  um  along  a  hedge  or  along  an 
 area  that  I  need  some  kind  of 
 brightness,  but  they're  fabulous 
 bloomers.  They're  fabulous  clusters  and 
 they  stay  full  from  the  bottom  all  the 
 way  to  the  top.  So,  you're  not  really 
 dealing  with  some  of  that  legggininess 
 that  you  deal  with  a  lot  of  the  blooming 
 plants.  So,  don't  get  fooled  though. 
 They  don't  smell  Don't  get  fooled.  They 
 do  not  smell.  A  lot  of  jasmines  do  have 
 a  great  fragrance.  These  do  not.  That's 
 probably  their  only  hiccup  that  they're 
 absolutely  gorgeous.  They  look  like  they 
 smell  fabulous,  but  they  do  not  have  any 
 kind  of  fragrance.  But  let's  move  on  to 
 the  very  last  one,  and  this  one  does 
 have  a 
 fragrance.  So,  for  our  next  blooming 
 perennial,  would  be  the  dwarf  tree 
 jasmine.  I'll  get  Bryce  to  stick  up  the 
 botanical  name  um  up  here  so  you  guys 
 can  find  it.  It  is  a  little  harder  to 
 find,  but  it  is  absolutely  worth  that 
 little  bit  of  effort  to  uh  locate  it 
 because  it  is  so  cool  in  the  garden. 
 whether  you're  looking  to  kind  of  create 
 more  of  a  bush  grouping  with  it  um  or 
 you're  looking  to  kind  of  create  a  small 
 tree  with  it.  I'll  get  Bryce  to  pop  in 
 pictures  of  all  three  of  those.  So  that 
 way  you  guys  can  decide  if  that  you  know 
 what  you're  looking  for  for  the  space. 
 But  I  absolutely  love  love love  this 
 plant,  this  cluster  grouping.  And  you 
 guys,  it  just  came  out  of  bloom  cycle  a 
 month  ago  was  absolutely  covered  with 
 these  clusters  like  that.  I  don't  know 
 if  you  can  see  the  one  branch  of  blooms, 
 but  that's  exactly  the  whole  branch  is 
 covered  with  these  white  tulip-like 
 flowers.  The  bees,  the  butterflies,  the 
 birds  absolutely  love  this  little  corner 
 right  here.  It  is  perfect  for  a  seating 
 section.  Has  almost  like  a  a  citrusy 
 smell.  So,  it's  definitely  worth  having 
 nearby.  You  can  definitely  The  breeze  is 
 flowing.  I  can  smell  it  when  we're 
 sitting  in  our  seating  area.  And  it's 
 just  a  kind  of  a  really  really  cool 
 tropical  looking  bloom  and  tropical 
 looking  clustered  plant.  Now,  they  come 
 in  a  couple  different  varieties.  This  is 
 the  dwarf  variety  that  has  the  small 
 leaves.  I'll  get  Bryce  to  post  picture 
 of  it  over  in  my  garden  in  a  shades  that 
 I'm  looking  to  kind  of  create  more  of 
 like  a  6ft  tall  bush  grouping.  It's  not 
 yet  in  bloom  because  it's  a  really  shady 
 shady  spot  that  it's  going  to  and  needs 
 like  a  little  bit  more  sunlight.  But  I 
 know  as  soon  as  it  gets  past  that  four 
 or  five  foot  range,  it's  going  to  get  to 
 that  top  section  which  is  going  to 
 totally  get  the  sun  that  it  needs  to 
 bloom.  So,  I'm  just  kind  of  patiently 
 waiting  for  it  to  get  some  size  to  it  to 
 bloom  all  at  the  top  to  kind  of  give  me 
 that  pop  of  white  color  in  the  rear 
 corner  of  my  garden.  So,  but  these  dwarf 
 tree  das  are  fabulous.  You  can  clean  the 
 bottoms  up  and  make  them  cool  little 
 trees.  I  have  one  in  the  front  that  I've 
 made  an  actual  tree,  so  it's  one  stock 
 and  it  has  a  tree.  Or  if  you  have  the 
 bushes  and  they're  multiple  stocks,  you 
 can  clean  those  stocks  off.  It  creates  a 
 beautiful  tree  clustering.  So,  I've 
 loved  working  with  them.  They're  tough. 
 They're  durable.  They  can  handle  the 
 wind.  They  can  handle  drought  tolerant 
 conditions.  They  can  handle  a  little bit 
 more  moisture  than  a  lot  of  plants  like. 
 So,  they're  kind  of  a  really  good 
 balance.  They'll  live  well  in  the  shade, 
 but  they  do  need  that  sun  to  provide 
 that  big  clusters  of  bloom.  So,  think 
 about,  you  know,  kind  of  where  you're 
 placing  them,  but  they're  an  ideal  deal 
 plant  if  you're  looking  to  create  kind 
 of  like  a  moon  garden  in  certain  spots, 
 especially  if  you're  looking  to  create 
 something  with  a  little  bit  of  height. 
 Now,  this  is  not  a  plant  that  you  can 
 keep  two  foot.  If  you  try  to  keep  it  two 
 foot,  it's  really  just  gonna  kind  of 
 stunt  out  and  not  do  its  best.  It's 
 something  that  needs  to  be  four  foot  and 
 above.  So,  kind  of  keep  that  in  mind.  I 
 put  them  commonly  on  like  blank  walls 
 along  a  house.  So,  if  I  have  some 
 centerpiece  that  I  need  to  kind  of  have 
 bushed  out  in  the  middle  between  two 
 windows  of  a  house,  it's  an  ideal 
 centerpiece  backdrop  to  something  like 
 this,  like  a  false  agave.  You  can  put  it 
 to  the  front,  put  that  in  the  back,  have 
 the  two  windows  and  do  something 
 dramatic  on  the  other  side  of  the  two 
 windows  and  you  have  a  a  beautiful 
 landscape  combination.  So,  they're  great 
 to  work  with  and  you  know,  it's  just 
 hard  to  find  things  with  fragrance.  I 
 love  the  gardinas,  but  I  have  a  lovehate 
 relationship  with  them  because  of  pH 
 levels  get  off  and  they  can  be  a  bit 
 temperamental.  So,  um  I  need  some  things 
 that  are  easy  and  that's  why  I  have 
 several  of  these  in  my  garden  and  only 
 one  gardinia  in  my  gardens.  So  that  is 
 my  last  five  I  would  say  non-negotiable 
 tropical  blooming  plants  that  I  use  to 
 create  beautiful  tropical  gardens  along 
 the  treasure  and  space  coast  just 
 because  of  what  they  offer  their  ability 
 to  thrive  in  tough  environments  and 
 their  ability  to  bloom  and  be  beautiful 
 in  those  same  environments.  So  I  hope 
 you  guys  have  really  good  luck  with  them 
 and  please  leave  in  the  comment  down 
 below  if  you  have  other  plants.  I  know 
 there's  tons  of  them.  So,  if  you  have 
 other  plants  that  you  can  share  with  uh 
 new  gardeners  to  Florida,  please  share 
 them  in  the  comments.  Some  people  love 
 dwarf  exoras,  some  people  love  pagotas, 
 some  people  I  mean  you  whatever  that 
 might  be,  share  your  experience.  This  is 
 a  shared  gardening  channel  with  failures 
 and  triumphs  alike.  So  that  way  we  can 
 kind  of  help  everybody  along  this 
 journey  cuz  landscaping  in  Florida,  you 
 know,  it  comes  with  its  challenges.  It's 
 tough.  So,  I  hope  that  these  kind  of 
 things  help  and  you  guys  can  create  your 
 beautiful  tropical  colorful  garden. 
 However,  if  you  need  more  than  just 
 inspiration,  I  am  a  landscape  designer. 
 I  do  work  along  the  Treasure  and  Space 
 Coast.  We  also  have  a  designonly  service 
 and  of  course  the  virtual  service.  So, 
 I'll  put  all  of  that  contact  information 
 down  below  and  you  can  let  us  know  if 
 we're  going  to  be  a  good  fit  for  you 
 guys.  And  if  you  guys  love  today's 
 video,  then  check  out  our  last  video 
 that  we  posted  last  week.  It's  another 
 garden  tour  about  tropicals.  And  I  hope 
 you  enjoy  it.  Take  care,  you  guys.

---

 Well,  hello  gardeners.  Welcome  back.  We 
 are  in  Merit  Island,  Florida  today  and 
 we  are  in  a  beautiful  butterfly  garden 
 that  we  just  created  for  a  client.  This 
 garden  has  10  different  varieties  of 
 butterfly  plants.  And  I  don't  know  if 
 you  guys  can  see  them  around  me,  but  we 
 are  literally  being  invaded  by  those 
 beautiful  creatures.  So,  today  I  want  to 
 take  a  tour  through  some  of  the  most 
 common  butterfly  plants  that  I  like  to 
 use.  Now,  what  I  do  love  about  butterfly 
 plants  is  the  obvious.  They  bring  those 
 beauties  in.  The  one  negative  is  it's 
 kind  of  hard  to  create  a  butterfly 
 garden  without  it  kind  of  creating  a 
 crazy  kind  of  look.  It's  a  more  cottagey 
 vibe.  And  as  you  guys  know,  that's  kind 
 of  not  necessarily  the  way  that  I  like 
 to  design.  So,  this  is  kind  of  like 
 marrying  my  style  with  a  butterfly 
 garden  style.  There's  going  to  be 
 obviously  a  little  bit  more  layered 
 effects,  more  softness  of  plants  leaning 
 on  plants,  but  overall,  it's  still  going 
 to  be  a  clean,  defined  line.  So,  I  still 
 planted  in  the  same  kind  of  drift 
 patterns,  the  same  kind  of  levels.  So, 
 if  this  is  a  combination  that  you  like 
 and  you  are  a  butterfly  lover,  then 
 stick  around  because  I'm  going  to  list 
 all  of  these  plants  that  we  chose,  the 
 kind  of  the  locations  we  chose  them  in. 
 Most  of  them  are  sun  varieties.  So,  for 
 those  of  you  guys  who  are  new  to  our 
 channel,  my  name  is  Jennifer  Bevans.  I 
 am  a  landscape  designer  of  over  25  years 
 now,  and  I  specialize  in  creating  these 
 kind  of  landscapes  for  my  clients.  Every 
 single  week,  we  do  projects  just  like 
 this.  We  also  have  a  designonly  service 
 for  those  of  you  guys  that  are  outside 
 our  area.  And  we  have  a  virtual  consult 
 option  also.  So,  if  that's  something 
 that  you're  looking  for,  I'll  put  all  of 
 our  contact  information  down  below. 
 Check  us  out,  see  if  we're  going  to  be  a 
 good  fit  for  what  you're  looking  for. 
 But  for  right  now,  let's  get  started  and 
 tour  this  beautiful  garden.  So,  you 
 guys,  before  we  start  pointing  out  the 
 plants  individually,  I'm  going  to  ask 
 Bryce  to  kind  of  just  do  a  a  span 
 throughout  the  whole  front  yard  space. 
 So  that  way  you  guys  kind  of  get  an 
 overall  chance  to  see  what  the  whole 
 garden  looks  like  as  a  combination,  as  a 
 as  a  whole  look.  Um,  this  is  a  very  long 
 front  yard  and  with  a  big  septic  tank  in 
 the  middle.  So  we  really  kind  of  just 
 landscaped  around  the  corners  of  the 
 septic  tank  to  make  sure  that  we  um,  you 
 know,  we  didn't  infringe  on  this  whole 
 front  section.  We  hit  as  many  hot  points 
 as  we  could  to  really  create  some 
 interest  around  this  house  without  of 
 course  getting  into  any  of  the  danger 
 zones  that  we  are  trying  to  avoid.  So 
 you  guys,  we're  right  here  at  the  right 
 corner  of  the  house.  So,  of  course,  our 
 big  anchor  tree  is  going  to  be  the 
 triple  foxtail  palm,  but  that  triple 
 foxtail  palm  needed  a  backing.  Needed 
 some  some  height,  some  impact  to  the 
 rear.  So,  what  we  chose  to  do  is  bring 
 in  some  red  hibiscus.  This  is  our  first 
 butterfly  plant.  We  have  got  a 
 clustering  of  eight  red  hibiscus  that 
 are  going  to  kind  of  come  from  this 
 point  here  and  curve  around  the  back 
 side  of  it,  filling  up  this  whole  corner 
 to  about  5t  tall.  Now,  these  are  planted 
 about  a  foot  and  a  half  to  two  foot  on 
 center.  So  I  plant  them  in  kind  of  a 
 staggered  effect.  So  you  can  see  like 
 there's  a  trio  here  of  a  triangle 
 formation  and  then  a  staggered  grouping 
 here.  This  will  allow  them  to  connect 
 fast  and  that  way  they  don't  get  that 
 wonky  shape  to  them.  That  way  they 
 really  become  a  nice  grouped  planting 
 and  will  create  a  fabulous  wall  of  red 
 hibiscus.  Now  I  often  see  hibiscus  kept 
 at  like  a  3ft  and  under  size,  you  know, 
 where  they're  cut  back  and  cut  back  and 
 cut  back.  And  although  they  will  live, 
 they  will  have  a  tendency  to  become 
 woody  and  you  will  not  get  nearly  as 
 many  blooms  as  you  will  if  you  let  them 
 get  four  foot  and  above.  So  four  to  six 
 foot  is  kind  of the  sweet  spot  for  um 
 hibiscus.  And  since  blooms  are  a  big 
 part  of  what  they're  doing  here  to 
 attract  all  kinds  of  beautiful  things, 
 you  know,  I  asked  my  clients  to  go 
 around  four  to  six  foot  and  keeping  them 
 the  rear  wall  here.  So  they're  they're 
 going  to  be  kind  of  that  colorful  bright 
 red  and  green  wall  directly  behind  this 
 tree.  And  then  the  next  grouping  of 
 plants  is  going  to  tear  down  from  there. 
 So  these  sanchchi  are  not  butterfly 
 plants,  but  I  do  love  what  they  do 
 against  this  green.  So  that's  part  of  my 
 design  style  that  it,  you  know,  kind  of 
 mixed  in  with  her  butterfly  style.  So 
 these  Sanchez  are  going  to  cluster  here 
 at  a  nice  3-foot  height  on  both  sides. 
 Then  it  tears  down  to  some  native  county 
 palms  right  in  this  group,  which  are 
 going  to  really  become  just  a  nice  bit 
 of  dark  green  foliage.  And  then  another 
 favorite  butterfly  plant,  our  second 
 variety,  which  is  the  blew  my  minds.  Oh 
 my  gosh,  they  love  love  love  blew  my 
 minds.  So  this  is  going  to  be  a  carpet 
 flower  right  through  here.  And  you  know, 
 if  you  guys  are  looking  to  recreate  this 
 kind  of  style  for  yourself,  you  can 
 really  see  kind  of  exactly  how  these 
 layers  are  set  is  how  they're  going  to 
 become  and  grow  in.  So  we  got  the  ground 
 cover  here  of  the  blew  my  minds.  Our 
 next  tier  is  the  counti  palms.  We've 
 done  a  little  bit  of  gold  mound  on  the 
 corners  just  to  kind  of  have  another 
 twoft  height  as  they  grow  in.  These 
 count  palms  will  be  3  foot  in  the 
 middle.  These  sanchchesia  will  be  3 
 three  and  1/2t  on  the  sides  and  then 
 these  swath  of  hibiscus  will  be  around 
 5t  to  6t  depending  on  what  the  client's 
 looking  for  as  a  rear  wall.  So  boom  boom 
 boom  boom  boom  all  the  way  to  ground 
 level  and  now  you  have  a  really  nice 
 tiered  corner  bed  effect.  All right.  So, 
 one  thing  I  do  not  want  to  miss  in  this 
 particular  little  island  planting  here 
 is  this  sapphire  durant.  Now,  there's 
 not  too  many.  We've  got  a  couple  of 
 little  little  touches  of  of  wings  around 
 here,  but  this  is  a  draw  for 
 butterflies.  If  you  guys  like  the  look 
 of  this  tree,  I  know  it's  a  little  bit 
 crazy,  a  little  bit  wild.  Pop  a  couple 
 of  these  in  your  garden.  They  will 
 absolutely  come  flocking  to  them.  This 
 sporadic,  wild,  crazy  bloom  at  the  edge 
 is  just  super  stunning  and  work  with  a 
 tropical  garden  like  nobody's  business. 
 I  have  seen  where  these  kind  of  look 
 like  firecrackers  when  they're  about 
 four  or  5t  tall  and  really  open  up  or  um 
 you  can  keep  them  more  ball-like.  If 
 you're  just  really  into  pruning,  you  can 
 keep  these  more  condensed.  You  just  have 
 to  do  quite  a  bit  of  trimming  to  them. 
 But  this  is  called  Sapphire  Durant,  and 
 it's  just  a  great  little  tree.  They  come 
 in  bushes,  but  I  like  the  trees  cuz 
 they're  a  little  bit  easier  to  keep 
 because  of  their  natural  sprawling 
 constitution  there.  They  really  do.  Um, 
 they  do  look  like  a  firecracker  to  me. 
 They  do  kind  of  go  wild.  And  then  this 
 is  what  I  do  with  milkweed,  you  guys. 
 Well,  hello  ladies.  This  is  what  I  do 
 with  milkweed.  I  stick  them  in  the  back. 
 I  know  that  they  have  a  purpose.  I  know 
 they  have  a  goal  in  life,  but  I  stick 
 them  in  the  back  and  they  do  a  great  job 
 of  becoming  little  host  plants  for  our 
 butterflies.  I  commonly  will  find  little 
 key  areas.  Even  in  my  own  garden,  when 
 I've  got  a  sunny  spot  and  it's  not 
 really  seen,  I'll  stick  some  milkweed 
 back  there.  They'll  they'll  hover  around 
 the  milkweed  and  then  what  you  see  is 
 the  butterflies,  but  not  necessarily  the 
 mess  of  the  butterfly  plants  or  host 
 plants.  Now,  these  are  the  same  thing. 
 You  can  see  these  caterpillars  on  these 
 vines,  a  big  butterfly  attractant  here. 
 I  mean,  look  at  these  guys.  Yeah.  And 
 then  you  can  check  out  this  vine  here.  I 
 mean,  look  at  what  a  host  plant  this  is. 
 You  can  see  the  caterpillars  already 
 starting  here.  And  then  you  can  see  that 
 this  is  actually  a  leaf  itself,  but 
 they'll  mimic  this  when  they  cocoon  into 
 this  look,  which  is  just  so  fabulous. 
 This  is  just  such  a  fantastic  little 
 grouping.  It  does  bloom  a  gorgeous 
 flower  throughout  the  year.  This  is  the 
 flower  before  it  was  decimated  by  the 
 butterflies.  So,  you  can  really 
 see  just  how  that's  going  to  town.  All 
 right,  so  we  are  on  the  side  island.  I 
 kind  of  made  this  more  like  a  wing  here. 
 Um  the  neighbor's  house  is  directly 
 across  and  so  is  their  driveway.  So, 
 this  offers  a  little  bit  of  privacy  as 
 well  as  kind  of  creating  a  little  just 
 again  a  butterfly  island.  So,  this  is 
 going  to  be  a  gorgeous  little  layering 
 grouping  that's  really  going  to  bring 
 this  in.  We  have  packed  this  full  with 
 some  really  great  color  with  some  really 
 great  plants.  We've  got  anarie  lantas 
 just  below  here.  They're  going  to  really 
 come  into  that  twoft  range  and  really 
 kind  of  fill  out  this  spot.  We've  got 
 some  dwarf  pentas.  These  are  the  dwarf 
 hot  pink  pentas  right  here.  They're 
 going  to  flank  right  in  front  of  these 
 gold  mounds.  Of  course,  big  big 
 butterfly  attracted.  So,  they're  really 
 going  to  do  a  nice  job  here.  Right 
 through  this  front,  we  have  just  kind  of 
 a  drift  of  blew  my  minds  again  to,  you 
 know,  benefit  our 
 cause.  That  rear  corner  right  behind 
 that  tree  there.  I  love  the  yellow 
 golden  rod  milkweed.  I  think  it's  just 
 the  prettiest  of  the  variety  to  me.  But 
 you  can  see  that  they're  going  to  be 
 tucked  kind  of  in  this  corner  where  this 
 mimosa  tree  or  powderpuff  tree  will  open 
 up  and  really  fill  out  and  kind  of 
 disguise  this  a  little  bit  from  the 
 back.  And  then  the  plants  to  the  front 
 will  help  disguise  some  of  the  thinner 
 growth  down  below.  So  it'll  kind  of  give 
 us  a  nice  tiered  effect.  These  mimosa 
 trees  are  beautiful  bloomers.  This  is 
 the  pink  variety  and  it's  going  to  get 
 into  that  5  to  six  foot  range  and  really 
 open  up.  Now  the  bush  variety  is  multi- 
 stemmed  where  the  tree  variety  is 
 obviously  a  standard  or  a  single  trunk 
 dominant  leader  trunk.  This  is  going  to 
 really  open  up,  branch  out  and  really 
 give  a  nice  backdrop  to  the  King 
 Alexander  palm  and  then  of  course  offer 
 the  blooms  for  the  butterflies.  I  wanted 
 a  nice  defined  line  here.  So,  what  we 
 have  is  some  blaze  copper  leaf.  Now,  I 
 know  they  don't  offer  a  bloom.  They're 
 probably  not  a  fan  favorite  um  of  the 
 butterflies  in  this  island,  but  they  do 
 kind  of  give  us  a  nice  dramatic  pop  of 
 color  right  through  the  middle.  And  you 
 kind  of  see  how  I  like  to  curve  my 
 planting.  So,  I'm  almost  creating  like  a 
 soft  tropical  hedge  with  this  particular 
 plant.  It's  going  to  wrap  around  the 
 rear  side  of  some  tall  material,  come 
 in,  and  then  curve  back  around.  It's 
 going  to  offer  a  little  bit  of  a  border 
 for  this  space.  So  that  way  our 
 butterfly  plantings  has  some  divisions, 
 some  lines.  They  have  a  tendency, 
 butterfly  plants  want  to  grow  together 
 and  really  kind  of  overlap  each  other. 
 So  my  goal  was  to  find  lines  with  some 
 plants  that  can  really  be  strong  enough 
 to  kind  of  create  that  border  for  our 
 plants.  So  they're  running  right  through 
 the  middle  of  this.  Right  through  the 
 front,  we  have  the  ruby  reds  kind  of 
 defining  that  border.  And  then  along  the 
 rear  side  here,  we've  got  dwarf  fires 
 bush.  Now,  this  is  not  the  native 
 variety,  but  it  is  my  favorite  variety. 
 This  is  a  variety  that  you  can  keep 
 three  foot,  4  foot,  5  foot.  You  know,  it 
 is  one  of  those  things  that  it  will 
 continue  to  grow,  but  you  can  absolutely 
 keep  it  your  desired  height  and  it  will 
 still  stay  green  and  it  will  still 
 bloom,  which  is  the  most  ideal  thing 
 about  that  particular  plant  is  that  it 
 can  be  bushy  and  thick  and  stay  as  short 
 as  you  want,  hence  the  name  dwarf,  even 
 though  it  will  get  10  or  12t  tall  if  you 
 let  it.  So,  we  have  another  mimosa  bush 
 here.  Of  course,  the  one  we  were  just 
 looking  at  was  there.  And  we've  got  one 
 over  on  that  corner  just  to  kind  of  give 
 us  a  backdrop  of  a  different  variety  and 
 color  here.  Right  here,  we  have  a  Hong 
 Kong  orchid.  It's  just  coming  out  of 
 season,  so  it's  going  to  flush  back  out 
 with  new  growth  and  then  offer  a 
 beautiful  purple  contrasting  uh  bloom. 
 So,  this  is  going  to  be  stunning  right 
 here. 
 So,  this  is  a  nice  big  bed  that  is  mixed 
 with  a  little  bit  of  butterfly  chaos  and 
 then  a  little  bit  of  more  fine-tuning  of 
 the  tropical  look.  So,  I  think  there's  a 
 great  balance  of  both  in  this  bed.  And 
 then  you  pop  in  a  couple  larger  trees 
 and  some  palm  trees  and  voila,  it's 
 butterfly,  it's  tropical,  it's  Florida, 
 it's  all  together.  So,  I  think  there's  a 
 great  combination,  a  great  mix,  and  it's 
 going to  offer  my  clients  tons  and  tons 
 and  tons  of  fun  watching  these  little 
 cool  little  creatures  in  their  garden. 
 Let's  take  a  peek  at  their  other  front 
 bed.  All right,  you  guys.  So,  this 
 little  bed  right  here  is  exactly  what  it 
 needed  to  be.  This  septic  tank  comes 
 right  to  the  edge  here.  So,  we 
 incorporated  as  many  plants  as  we  could 
 to  soften  the  foundation  of  this  house 
 and  then  tie  it  into  the  rest  of  the 
 landscaping.  But,  this  is  the  reason  why 
 it  just  kind  of  doesn't  do  my  natural 
 big  loops  like  I  like  to  do.  But,  I 
 think  it's  just  enough  for  this  space. 
 So  we  have  got  a  trio  antiloo  or  florica 
 quarter  lines  in  this  grouping  right 
 here.  So  this  is  the  antiloo  variety. 
 The  florica  have  a  little  bit  more  pink 
 in  them  but  I  know  a  lot  of  people  call 
 them  the  same  plants.  So  but  you  can  use 
 either  or  for  the  same  type  of  look. 
 These  are  going  to  really  grow  into  a 
 nice  5ft  height  right  here  along  this 
 brick.  And  I  think  they're  going  to  just 
 really  show  off  the  space  really  really 
 well.  Then  we've  got  some  golden  dust 
 down  below.  Neither  one  of  these  of 
 course  are  butterfly  plants  but  they  are 
 nice  balance  to  them.  I  think  kind  of 
 helping  keeping  the  bed  low  maintenance 
 and  working  with  such  a  small  area.  A 
 little  touch  of  blew  my  minds  right  at 
 the  front.  And  then  we  have  yellow 
 African  iris  right  here.  This  is  just 
 one  bloom  on  this  plant.  This  is  going 
 to  go  to  town  with  more  of  them.  But 
 look  at  that  gorgeous  delicate  bloom  on 
 those.  I  just  love  love  love  this  plant. 
 And  when  it  comes  to  that  plant, 
 maintenance  is  super  easy.  All  you  want 
 to  do  is  trim  anything  that's  hanging 
 too  low.  Kind  of  keeping  those  stocks  a 
 little  tight  at  the  bottom,  like  a 
 bouquet  of  flowers.  just  trim  all  the 
 way  around  the  base  and  just  do  that 
 about  every  3  months  when  you  see  that 
 happen.  These  guys  you  can  cut  back 
 every  single  year  all  the  way  to  the 
 ground  if  you  like  and  let  it  flush  back 
 out.  But  to  me,  I  like  them  full  and 
 thick  and  just  trim  those  bases.  But 
 they  bloom  every  spring  all  throughout 
 the  summer.  I  just  think  they're  such  a 
 nice  delicate  look  in  front  of  a  window 
 that  you  don't  want  to  block.  So  they're 
 very  nice  and  vertical  here.  And  then  we 
 just  chose  some  a  little  bit  bigger  than 
 basketball  size.  some  soft  boulders  just 
 to  inset  into  the  landscape  to  kind  of 
 mix  texture  because  we  couldn't  put  any 
 big  plants  in  here.  So,  those  were  our 
 big  feature.  Our  secondary  big  features 
 are  the  little  foxtail  ferns,  some 
 golden  sedum  near  the  boulders,  and  then 
 of  course  finishing  them  off  with  some 
 blue  my  minds  right  through  here.  And  I 
 think  this  little  bed  is  just  enough  for 
 this  space.  Well,  you  guys  will  have  to 
 let  me  know  what  you  think.  Also,  let  me 
 know  if  there  is  a  butterfly  plant  that 
 you  absolutely  love  because  I  have 
 clients  all  the  time  wanting  me  to  come 
 up  with  different  scenarios  of,  you 
 know,  something  attractants  to  bring 
 those  in.  If  there's  anything  that  you 
 guys  said,  I  brought  this  in  and  I  just 
 it  just  opened  the  floodgates.  It  was 
 just  perfect  for  my  garden  because  of 
 this  reason,  then  please  share  it  in  the 
 comments  down  below.  You  guys  who  are 
 looking  for  more  of  a  list,  please  check 
 out  the  comments  down  below.  So,  I'm 
 sure  you'll  find  a  a  huge  amount  of 
 variety  of  different  species  that  you 
 can  incorporate  into  your  very  own 
 butterfly  garden.  And  then,  as  you  can 
 see  right  here,  it's  just  a  rinse  and 
 repeat  on  the  opposite  side.  So,  when 
 you  have  spaces  that  are  equal  in  sizes 
 and  distance,  it's  better  off  just  to 
 kind  of  work  with  what  you  have.  So,  we 
 have  a  centerpiece  focal  point  with  a 
 little  bit  of  softness  and  then  these 
 two  sides  are  more  vertical,  more  thick, 
 more  dense,  more  with  a  pop  of  color  or 
 heaviness.  We  couldn't  go  heavy  here,  so 
 we  did  a  pop  of  color.  And  I  think  that 
 did  a  nice  job  of  working  with  both 
 spaces.  So  we  have  a  little  island  over 
 here  right  by  the  front  door.  Let's  take 
 a  look  at  that.  So  the  centerpiece  tree 
 in  this  island  here  is  the  bottle  brush. 
 This  is  the  standard  variety  or  what 
 they  call  the  lollipop  shape.  So  this 
 one  can  stay  nice  and  compact.  It  can  on 
 average  double  in  size  what  this  head 
 is,  but  you  can  keep  it  this  size 
 forever  or  you  can  let  it  just  get  a 
 little  chunkier  and  a  little  broader  as 
 a  a  circular  little  topper.  comes  with  a 
 nice  single  dominant  leader  down  below. 
 So,  it  becomes  and  stays  a  nice  kind  of 
 compact  tree.  So,  we  didn't  have  a  lot 
 of  room  to  work  with  here  and  I  think 
 it's  going  to  do  a  fantastic  job  of  just 
 really  housing  the  birds  and  the 
 butterflies  and  just,  you  know,  with  its 
 bloom.  And  these  guys  bloom  all  year 
 long,  but  especially  in  spring,  early 
 summer,  they  just  go  to  town  with  those 
 blooms.  Right  here,  we  did  the  same 
 thing  as  we  did  in  the  front.  We  just 
 kind  of  did  a  chunky  grouping  of  some 
 antiloos.  And  then  we  have  some  on  that 
 side  with  some  chunky  grouping.  Now, 
 they're  going  to  keep  these  guys 
 probably  similar  to  size  to  what  they 
 currently  are.  Just  really  let  them  be 
 just  kind  of  a  heavier  grouping.  You  do 
 not  need  to  let  them  get  10  foot  tall 
 and  just  leggginess.  You  really  can  keep 
 them  chunky,  kind  of  like  a  bouquet  of 
 flowers.  Down  below,  we  have  some  hot 
 pink  dwarf  pentas.  These  are  the  penta 
 varieties  that  get  chunky  and  full,  not 
 so  tall  and  leggy,  so  they're  going  to 
 do  a  great  job  of  kind  of  being  a  a 
 little  barrier  along  the  edge.  Just  a 
 teeny  tiny  bit  of  three  blew  my  minds. 
 And  then  in  the  middle,  just  because  we 
 have  so  many  nice  lower  layers  down 
 here,  I  want  these  songs  of  India  to  get 
 about  three  foot  tall  and  really 
 connected  and  really  bushy  and  a  little 
 bit  wild  and  crazy.  That  way  they 
 connect  together  and  create  that  perfect 
 soft  tropical  little  hedge  underneath 
 this  red.  Now,  I  have  seen  these  when 
 they're  full  and  they're  lush  and  then 
 you  have  a  pop  of  red  or  pink  or  a 
 contrasting  color  like  that.  It's  just 
 dazzling  those  two  combinations.  So,  I 
 use  them  in  places  just  like  that  when 
 you  have  that  light  and  that  dark 
 combination  together.  But  these  are 
 giant  apossel  iris.  We  just  got  into  the 
 season  where  all  the  big  ones  were  gone. 
 So,  we've  got  some  babies  coming  in 
 here.  These  will  max  out  at  3  and  1/2  ft 
 tall.  Bloom  a  gorgeous  purple  flower  and 
 really  just  kind  of  fill  in  this  wall 
 space.  So,  they're  going  to  kind  of  come 
 in  to  a  nice  height  like  this.  Really  be 
 nice  and  vertical.  In  this  little  bed, 
 we  have  the  solid  burgundy's  of  these 
 guys.  We've  got  the  variegation  of  white 
 and  green  of  these  guys.  And  then  we've 
 got  when  it's  time  for  blooming  power, 
 we've  got  the  blew  my  minds  of  the  blue, 
 the  hot  pinks  of  the  pentas,  the 
 beautiful  purple  of  these  giant  aaposel 
 iris,  and  then  the  gorgeous  red  bottle 
 brush  blooms  of  the  tree  itself.  And  so 
 this  will  be  a  very  colorful  combination 
 for  a  very  small  planting  coming  up  the 
 walkway.  It'll  be  it'll  just  wave  at  at 
 people  as  they  come  in.  I  think  it's 
 going  to  be  quite  welcoming.  So  now 
 we're  going  to  take  a  look  at  this  other 
 bed  that  we  have  right  here  by  the 
 walkway.  So  this  right  here,  all  this 
 green  that  you  guys  see  here,  this  is 
 the  lovely  septic  tank.  So  this  all  the 
 way  through  to  the  edge  of  the  house 
 line  is  what  we  could  not  touch.  Now,  we 
 did  have  some  footage  right  along  here. 
 So  we  did  pop  out  a  little  bed  because 
 you  know  I  how  I  am  wast.  And  we  had  a 
 little  spot  to  work  with.  So  we  have  a 
 little  island  that  we're  going  to  let  be 
 its  own  little  garden  right  here.  We 
 have  got  the  false  agave  as  the 
 centerpiece.  We  did  a  little  raise  to 
 this  island  right  here.  And  then  I  got 
 some  railroad  vine  for  the  butterflies 
 to  really  just  enjoy  a  little  touch  on 
 either  side  of  the  dwarfed  pentis.  Of 
 course,  when  I  have  boulders,  I  put 
 foxtail  ferns  in  here.  I  know  you  guys 
 from  up  north  probably  are  laughing  when 
 I  call  these  boulders,  but  in  Florida, 
 they're  boulders.  soon.  They're  small 
 boulders,  but  we  just  kind  of  have  them 
 to  give  them  just  a  change  in  the  garden 
 because  this  is  not  a  big  bed,  and  it's 
 hard  to  fill  up  a  big  bed  like  this  with 
 plants.  So,  changing  the  elements  is  a 
 great  way  of  doing  just  that.  I  have  a 
 little  bit  of  golden  sedum  right  at  the 
 touch  because  the  heat  off  of  this 
 sidewalk  is  intense.  So,  you  really  have 
 to  work  with  some  plants  that  are  really 
 going  to  be  able  to  handle  that  long 
 term.  And  these  guys,  all  of  these  guys 
 can  battle  that  battle.  So,  it's  going 
 to  just  be  a  nice  little  punch  in  an 
 area  that  we  could  put  it.  So,  all 
 right,  gardeners,  that's  pretty  much  the 
 end  of  our  front  yard  tour.  I'm  going  to 
 list  the  plants  again  that  were 
 butterfly  plants  amongst  this  garden, 
 which  the  first  one  was  the  red 
 hibiscus.  The  second  blew  my  minds  cuz 
 they're  just  blew  my  minds.  And  then  the 
 third  is  the  uh  dwarfed  pink  pentas.  The 
 fourth  is  the  yellow  African  iris.  The 
 fifth  is  the  sapphire  durant  tree.  Oh  my 
 goodness.  The  sixth  is  the  anmarie 
 lantana.  The  seventh  is  the  dwarf 
 firebush.  The  eighth  is  the  yellow 
 lantana  tree.  Nine  is  the  mimosa  tree 
 which  is  not  yet  in  bloom.  So,  and  then 
 10  is  the  milkweed.  Now,  if  you  count 
 the  trees  and  of  course  everything 
 winged  loves  trees.  So,  if  you  count  the 
 orchid  tree  and  the  bottle  brush  tree 
 and  the  vines,  I  mean,  all  of  that  can 
 also  be  included.  But  overall, 
 plant-wise,  if  those  are  things  that  you 
 want  to  incorporate  into  your  garden  to 
 bring  some  winged  friends  in,  and  then 
 those  are  a  great  grouping  that  I  would 
 include  in  landscapes  that  I  create  for 
 others  as  well  as  my  own  garden.  All 
 right,  you  guys.  Thank  you  so  much  for 
 joining  us.  Please  like  and  subscribe. 
 Check  us  out  every  single  weekend.  We 
 try  to  bring  some  good  information  to 
 all  of  you  gardeners.  And  if  there's 
 anything  that  you  would  like  to  know 
 specifically  about,  stick  in  the 
 comments  down  below.  If  it's  something 
 too  long  and  I  can't  get  to  it,  then  I 
 will  absolutely  make  a  video  about  it 
 because  that's  kind  of  what  we're  here 
 to  do.  That's  kind  of  what  we  enjoy  to 
 do.  However,  if  you  need  more  than  just 
 inspiration,  I  am  a  landscape  designer. 
 I  do  work  along  the  Treasure  and  Space 
 Coast.  We  also  have  a  designonly  service 
 and  of  course  the  virtual  service.  So, 
 I'll  put  all  of  that  contact  information 
 down  below  and  you  can  let  us  know  if 
 we're  going  to  be  a  good  fit  for  you 
 guys.  All right,  you  guys.  So,  if  you've 
 enjoyed  today's  garden  tour,  then  check 
 out  our  latest  garden  tour.  I'm  sure 
 you'll  enjoy  that  one  as  well.  So,  take 
 care.

---

 So,  good  morning.  Welcome  back,  True 
 Gardeners.  As  you  can  see,  we  are  right 
 back  where  we  belong  on  our  True 
 Gardener  channel.  I  am  so  excited  to  to 
 share  this  video  with  you.  I  did  not 
 think  it  was  coming.  As  many  of  you  guys 
 knew  that  uh  we  were  hacked  a  couple 
 weeks  ago.  Um  we  had  very  little  hope 
 from  what  YouTube  had  said  and  all  the 
 threads  and  all  the  correspondence  that 
 we  were  going  to  cover  our  channel.  It 
 did  not  look  like  that  was  going  to 
 happen.  However,  late  yesterday  evening, 
 they  came  through  like  champs  and 
 totally  said,  "Okay,  we've  got  it.  We've 
 confirmed  everything  is  good  to  go.  You 
 are  back  live.  Your  channel  is  back  up 
 and  running."  And  they  restored  all  of 
 our  videos.  Oh  gosh,  can  you  I  just  I 
 know  you  can  you  can  sense  the  relief  in 
 me.  And  I  am  so  grateful  to  be  back 
 where  we  belong  on  our  channel,  nestled 
 around  with  all  of  our  300  plus  videos. 
 So  you  guys,  I  could  not  wait  to  do  this 
 video  this  morning  and  share  this  news 
 with  you.  Um,  YouTube  did  tell  us  that 
 um  because  we  kind  of  technically 
 flatlined  in  the  YouTube  world  for  a 
 couple  weeks  that  the  algorithm  is 
 probably  not  going  to  pick  up  our 
 channel  uh  very  well  initially.  So  it 
 might  take  some  months  for  things  to 
 really  get  going  back  out  there.  So,  I 
 thought  I  would  reach  out  to  my 
 community  and  ask  you  guys  if  you  would 
 not  mind  please  going  back  through  the 
 previous  videos  that  we  have  on  this 
 channel  and  liking  if  you  haven't  liked 
 and  putting  a  comment  down  as  many  in  as 
 many  of  those  videos  as  absolutely 
 possible  as  as  you're  willing  to  do.  And 
 it  could  be  something  really  simple  like 
 true  gardener,  which  is  my  favorite 
 comment  of  all.  Um  or  it  could  be  a 
 virtual  hug.  It  could  be  welcome  back. 
 It  could  be  anything.  Um,  but  if  you 
 guys  wouldn't  mind  doing  that,  that  lets 
 YouTube  know  that  we  are  still  relevant. 
 They're  still  pairing  us  and  connecting 
 us  with  gardeners  and  that  will  help 
 kind  of  get  us  from  that  flatline  base 
 back  to,  oh,  oh,  this  channel  is  still 
 relevant.  So,  getting  us  back  up  and 
 running.  So,  I  we  would  so  appreciate 
 that  and  we  cannot  wait  to  create  more 
 and  more  and  more  content.  Um,  we  have 
 planned  on  um  popping  out  two  videos 
 every  weekend  and  we  are  still  going  to 
 do  that.  So,  uh,  we  went  from  once  a 
 week  to  now  twice  a  week  and  I  got  some 
 beautiful  videos.  Cannot  wait  to  share 
 them  with  you  guys.  However,  that  being 
 said,  the  very  first  this  very  first 
 weekend,  it  will  only  be  one  video 
 because  we  had  planned  on  sharing  a 
 video  that  we  had  saved  from  the 
 previous  channel  or  this  channel.  Yeah, 
 we  had  it  saved  from  this  channel  and 
 now  it's  all  getting  confusing.  Um,  and 
 we  were  going  to  post  it  on  the  new 
 channel,  but  so  obviously  we  can't  post 
 the  same  video  again.  So,  this  is  going 
 to  we're  just  going  to  have  today's 
 video  and  we're  going  to  have  a 
 beautiful  butterfly  garden  tour  that 
 comes  out.  Um  I  believe  it's  later 
 today.  So,  I  cannot  wait  to  share  that 
 one  with  you.  But  from  now  on  out,  we 
 will  have  two  videos  every  single 
 weekend  talking  about  gardening,  talking 
 about  tropical  foliage,  things  that  just 
 do  fabulous  in  our  environment  and 
 sharing  our  garden  tours  with  you  guys 
 in  hopes  that  it  helps  encourage  you  to 
 get  out  into  your  own  space  and  kind  of 
 create,  you  know,  combination  gardens 
 that,  you  know,  are  going  to  work 
 because  I  have  made,  I  feel  like,  all 
 the  mistakes  in  gardening  of  my  25  plus 
 years  as  a  landscape  designer.  have  made 
 plenty  of  them  and  we  have  a  tough 
 environment  to  work  in,  you  know,  with 
 our  Florida,  you  know,  monsoons  and  our 
 rains  and  then  our  dry  season  and  then 
 our,  you  know,  our  just,  you  know, 
 hurricane  season  and,  you  know,  and  our 
 pests  and  our  bugs.  We  have  it  all  in 
 Florida.  We  have  a  wonderful  environment 
 to  work  in,  but  we  have  our  sets  of 
 challenges.  So,  I  love  to  share  with  you 
 guys  things  that  that  are  just  tough, 
 things  that  that'll  that'll  work  its  way 
 right  through  those  seasons  just  like 
 champs.  And  um  that's  what  this 
 channel's  about.  And  if  this  has  taught 
 us  anything,  it's  taught  us  to  make  sure 
 that  that's  where  our  focus  is.  And  in 
 the  next  phase  coming  up,  we  want  to 
 make  sure  that  you  know  if  you  guys  are 
 intent  on  creating  that  perfect  garden 
 for  yourselves,  that  we're  going  to  give 
 you  as  much  information  about  our  zone 
 and  the  surrounding  zones  that  we  can. 
 So  that  way  we  can  we  can  help  be  a  part 
 of  that.  we  can  help  be  a  part  of  not 
 just  encouragement,  not  just  visually 
 showing  you  some  pretty  landscapes  and 
 and  things  like  that,  but  kind  of  some 
 tools  that  you  can  take  away.  what  plant 
 works  in  what  space,  what  plant 
 groupings  work  the  best  together,  what 
 they  like,  what  kind  of  soil  conditions, 
 what  kind  of  fertilization,  what,  you 
 know,  just  kind  of  give  you  a  big 
 debriefing  amongst  our  videos  every 
 single  weekend  to  share  some  of  those 
 tried  and  trueue  plants  that  really  just 
 really  can  make  it  really  going  to  make 
 you  look  good  out  in  the  garden  without 
 very  with  very  very  little  work, 
 especially  for  our  environment.  But 
 anyway,  I'm  getting  away  from  myself. 
 So,  if  you  guys  will  please  comment  as 
 much  on  as  many  videos  as  you  possibly 
 can,  it  would  truly  truly  help  us.  And 
 then  we  will  see  you  shortly  in  an 
 upcoming  video  that  I  think  you're  going 
 to  love.  Thank  you  guys  so  much  for  um 
 for  being  a  part  of  this  community  and 
 take  care.

---

 So  today  we  are  talking  about  having  a 
 strategy  and  why  it  matters  in  creating 
 a  backyard  tropical  environment.  Hey 
 gardeners,  today  we  are  in  Port  St. 
 Lucy,  Florida  and  we  are  going  to  talk 
 about  how  we  created  this  tropical  oasis 
 or  maybe  a  start  of  a  tropical  oasis  and 
 that's  exactly  what  we  did  for  our 
 client.  My  client  is  an  avid  gardener 
 from  up  north  and  he  knows  that 
 gardening  in  Florida  has  its  has  its, 
 you  know,  struggles.  So,  what  he  wanted 
 to  do  was  not  do  things  twice.  He 
 contacted  us  to  create  a  private  area 
 for  his  very  small  backyard  space.  Those 
 of  you  guys  who  have  moved  to  Port  St. 
 Lucy  recently  know  they  have  beautiful 
 communities,  but  the  lot  lines  are  a  lot 
 to  be  desired  of.  You  kind  of  share  your 
 lot  line  with  your  neighboring  house  on 
 both  sides.  So,  he  wanted  something  that 
 was  his,  that  would  become  his  private 
 sanctuary,  his  private  garden,  a  place 
 for  him  to  sit  and  relax.  And  so  he 
 thought,  let  me  have  a  landscape 
 company,  Mwah,  come  in  and  do  some  of 
 the  heavy  lifting,  create  a  design  that 
 for  things  that  are  going  to  work.  And 
 we're  going  to  talk  about  those  plants 
 and  trees  in  this  video,  why  we  place 
 them  where  we  place  them,  for  what 
 purpose,  and  how  they're  going  to  grow 
 in  over  time.  And  then  he's  going  to  do 
 all  the  what  I  call  the  lipstick  and 
 mascara  of  the  garden.  After  we  did  all 
 the  work  of  the  removal,  the  cleanup, 
 the  soil  prep,  bringing  in  the  big 
 trees,  he  is  going  to  doll  it  up  with 
 his  favorite  plants  and  trees.  And  he's 
 already  started  just  a  few  days  after 
 installation.  He's  already  got  picked  up 
 some  plants  that  he's  going  to  work  and 
 and  bring  into  the  garden  and  do  himself 
 because  that  is  his  favorite  part  of 
 gardening.  This  might  appeal  to  a  lot  of 
 you  guys.  For  those  of  you  guys  who  have 
 a  small  space  like  this  and  you  want  to 
 create  that  tropical  oasis  and  you  just 
 kind  of  don't  know  where  to  start,  then 
 maybe  having  a  landscape  company  create 
 a  plan  for  you  that  you  can  develop  over 
 time.  Or  if  the  budget  allows,  have  them 
 come  in  and  put  in  the  bigger  features, 
 the  accents  and  the  the  the  tough  things 
 to  get  into  your  backyard  or  have  them 
 do  some  of  the  heavy  lifting  of  removing 
 that  sod  and  bringing  in  that  soil.  and 
 then  leaving  you  that  next  that  next 
 area  to  really  kind  of  bring  in  your 
 personality  and  and  dial  it  in  with,  you 
 know,  your  your  favorite  colors,  your 
 favorite  plants  and  kind  of  just  doing 
 that  over  time.  So,  it's  the  best  way  to 
 get  what  you  want  over  a  period  of  of 
 months  or  years  and  create  your  own 
 space  and  that's  exactly  what  Pat  wanted 
 and  that's  exactly  what  we  did  for  him. 
 So,  Bryce  and  I  are  going  to  share  with 
 you  this  particular  project  because  we 
 can  do  kind  of  a  Bryce's  famous  little 
 blueprint  above  us  and  show  exactly 
 where  the  plants,  where  the  trees  went. 
 I'll  discuss  with  you  why  I  place  them 
 where  I  place  them.  So,  if  you  have  a 
 place  that's  very  similar  size-wise  or 
 sunwise  or  or  anything  like  that,  then 
 that's  something  that  you  can  screenshot 
 and  maybe  recreate  in  your  own  garden 
 with,  you  know,  key  areas  that  you  might 
 change  and  and  and  play  with.  And  that's 
 what  gardening  is  all  about.  So,  I  hope 
 this  helps  to  give  you  that  that  big 
 jump  start  as  we  move  through  this 
 garden  and  talk  about  these  plants  and 
 trees  to  create  that  privacy  in  a  narrow 
 space  and  something  that's  really  really 
 going  to  work  for  now  and  long  term. 
 But,  I'm  getting  ahead  of  myself.  For 
 those  of  you  who  are  not  familiar  with 
 this  channel  or  are  new  to  it,  my  name 
 is  Jennifer  Beans.  I  am  a  landscape 
 designer  here  in  Vero  Beach,  Florida. 
 And  we  do  this  every  day.  We  do 
 landscape  installations  and  designs  for 
 our  clients  all  along  the  Treasure  and 
 Space  Coast.  I'll  get  Bryce  to  put  up  a 
 little  map  of  our  locations  over  here. 
 We  also  have  just  a  design  service.  So, 
 those  of  you  DIYers  or  those  of  you  out 
 of  our  area  that  are  looking  to  create  a 
 a  design  similar  to  our  styles  that  you 
 see  on  YouTube,  then  um  reach  out  to  us. 
 We'd  be  happy  to  create  a  design  for 
 you.  And  we  also  have  which  is  very  new, 
 which  is  a  virtual  consult.  So,  for 
 those  of  you  guys  who  maybe  don't  have  a 
 whole  project  and  you're  just  kind  of 
 stuck  in  certain  areas  of  your  garden 
 and  need  a  little  bit  of  just  advice  on 
 what  you  might  want  to  do  here  or  might 
 want  to  do  there,  then  reach  out  to  us. 
 I'll  put  all  of  our  contact  information 
 down  below.  You'll  reach  out  directly  to 
 Marissa,  my  daughter-in-law,  and  she 
 will  take  all  your  information  and  then 
 you  guys  can  decide  if  we're  going  to  be 
 a  good  fit  for  what  you're  looking  for, 
 you  guys.  So,  let's  jump  right  in.  We 
 are  now  entering  the  backyard.  This  is 
 the  walkway  that  goes  from  the  driveway 
 around  the  corner  entering  this  backyard 
 space.  What  to  expect  back  here,  which 
 is  a  private  garden,  and  it's  not  quite 
 private  yet,  but  it  will  be  very,  very 
 soon.  So,  we're  going  to  talk  about  the 
 plants  and  the  trees  that  we  um  chose 
 for  the  spaces,  what  they're  going  to  do 
 in  the  future,  overall  heights  of  what 
 they're  going  to  be,  and  and  the  reasons 
 why  we  put  them  in  this  particular  spot. 
 Just  to  kind  of  give  you  a  point  of 
 reference,  this  whole  backyard  space  is 
 about  25  foot  deepway  and  about  40  foot 
 deep  or  45  foot  wide  uh  lengthwise.  So, 
 we're  really  talking  about  a  fairly 
 small  space.  And  I  will  pop  have  Bryce 
 pop  in  a  before  picture  of  what  it 
 looked  like.  One  of  the  things  that  you 
 want  to  avoid  in  a  small  space  is  you 
 don't  want  to  take  it  in  and  bring  all 
 the  plants  and  all  the  trees  and  all  the 
 walls  of  the  garden  and  bring  them  in  so 
 tight  that  you  feel  gosh  like  you've 
 done  the  opposite  of  what  you  want  to 
 do.  You  made  it  smaller.  You  made  it 
 more  congested.  That's  why  it's  really 
 important  to  pick  the  perfect  column 
 trees  to  go  into  that  space  because  it 
 raises  the  roof  line.  It's  like  all  of  a 
 sudden  now  it  opens  your  view  line, 
 opens  your  eyes  up  all  the  way  to  14, 
 15,  16  foot  where  before  you  just  kind 
 of  saw  a  flat,  you  know,  area  of  grass 
 that  was  that  was  kind  of  what  you  were 
 looking  at.  But  because  now  we  have 
 multi-layers  that  are  already  getting 
 started,  it  makes  it  opens  up  the  space 
 almost  like  umbrellas  at  a  resort. 
 That's  what  I  love  about  it.  So,  that's 
 what  I  wanted  to  kind  of  share  with  you 
 guys.  So,  if  you  could  you  can  get  them 
 started.  And  those  of  you  guys  who  are 
 not  able  to  have  a  landscape  company 
 come  in  and  put  in  this  big  material 
 with  their  machines  and  and  do  all  this, 
 don't  let  that  deter  you  because  start 
 small.  Florida  palm  trees  grow  super 
 fast.  You  may  have  a  gap  of  time  before 
 you're  able  to  put  in  your  smaller  plant 
 material  because  everything  is  still 
 young  and  small,  but  you  can  follow  this 
 same  plan.  Just  make  sure  that 
 everything  is  still  staggered.  So  if 
 you're  starting  with  bottle  palm  for 
 instance,  you  know,  and  and  you  may  not 
 be  able  to  go  with  a  30-  gallallon 
 bottle  palm  if  you  only  have  a  30- 
 gallallon  foxtail,  go  ahead  and  start 
 with  a  30-  gallon  or  15  gallon  foxtail 
 and  maybe  start  with  a  three  gallon  or 
 7gallon  bottle  palm.  You  know,  just  make 
 sure  you're  staggering  the  material  so 
 that  way  everything  grows  in  unison  like 
 this.  Really  going  to  do  the  same  thing. 
 You  just  need  a  little  bit  more  time  for 
 it  to  mature.  I  always  forget  to  say 
 this.  If  you  guys  have  not  already, 
 please  subscribe,  hit  that  little 
 notification  bell,  and  we  will  pop  up  in 
 your  feed  every  single  weekend  when  we 
 post  a  new  video.  So,  I  feel  like 
 fishtail  palms  are  are  underused  um  for 
 whatever  reason.  I  think  they're  a 
 fabulous  tree  to  work  with.  I  know  a  lot 
 of  people  go  right  to  a  palms  or  right 
 to  Kucia  or  right  to,  you  know,  some 
 other  kind  of  buffering  trees  and  plants 
 that  can  even  be  a  lot  higher 
 maintenance  than  that.  So,  I  um  I  I  lean 
 towards  using  the  fishtails  when  I  can. 
 But  if  you  guys  have  a  a  favorite,  you 
 know,  something  that  gosh,  you  put  in 
 and  it  just  did  so  well  and  you  want  to 
 share  it  with  the  community,  please  do 
 post  that  name  of  what  you  used  and  and 
 how  well  you  like  it  and  why  you  like  it 
 because  that  is  just  so  helpful  to  new 
 gardeners  from  Florida.  And  that's 
 mainly  who  watch  this  channel  are  a  lot 
 of  new  gardeners  or  a  lot  of  us 
 gardeners  trying  to  just  figure  it  out 
 after,  you  know,  fails  and  triumphs  and 
 fails  and  triumphs.  So  save  somebody 
 some  work  and  be  sure  to  post  that  name 
 of  that  plant  or  that  tree  that  you 
 absolutely  loved  and  did  the  job  for 
 you.  But  now  let's  go  into  the  next  the 
 understory  palms.  The  palms  that  are 
 kind  of  right  in  that  sighteline.  The 
 palms  that  I  to  me  are  some  of  the  show 
 pieces  that  are  going  to  be  around  for 
 the  long  haul.  Some  of  these  bigger 
 trees  are  going  to  continue  to  do  what 
 they're  going  to  do,  which  is  really 
 give  you  that  gravitas,  that  raising  of 
 the  canopy  of  the  trees.  The  rest  of 
 these  little  palms,  they're  little  now, 
 but  they're  really  going  to  become  that 
 long-term  solution.  And  one  of  those  is 
 going  to  be  the  Kentopsis.  I  don't  get 
 to  use  this  tree  very  often.  I 
 absolutely  love  love love  this  tree.  It 
 can  handle  temperatures  and  drops  down 
 into  the  low30s,  which  is  unusual  for  a 
 lot  of  tropical  uh  Florida  palms.  I  love 
 this.  I  mean,  I  don't  know  if  you  guys 
 can  tell  or  if  it  comes  across  on 
 camera,  but  I  love  this  big  frond  and 
 the  verticalness  of  it.  I  love  I  just 
 love  the  way  it  just  has  a  completely 
 different  look  than  a  foxtail,  than  a 
 pygmy,  than  a  fish  tail.  You  know,  it's 
 the  whole  idea  is  when  you  look  back 
 here,  you  just  have  a  mesh  of  different 
 kind  of  textures  and  different  kind  of 
 fronds.  They're  all  green,  but  they're 
 all  different.  And  that's  kind  of  to  me 
 what  creates  that  tropical  vibe.  And 
 these  are  going  to  not  outgrow  the 
 foxtail  palm.  They  will  continue  to  get 
 big  like  a  lot  of  Florida  palms,  but 
 it's  never  going  to  compete  with  that 
 over  time  because  this  is  going  to 
 obviously  started  out  as  a  much  much 
 smaller  accent  tree.  So,  these  are  great 
 trees  to  work  with.  They  can  handle 
 sandy  soils.  They  can  handle  a  little 
 bit  of  moisture.  They  can  handle  full 
 sun.  And  they  can  handle  filtered  light. 
 So,  and  they  can  handle  those  occasional 
 drops  that  we  get.  And  they're  cool.  I 
 mean,  I  just  think  they're  super  cool. 
 So,  nice  compact  tree  that  you  can  fit 
 into  a  tight  space.  So,  the  next  tree, 
 and  I  know  I  use  these  all  the  time,  and 
 there  is  a  lovehate  relationship  with 
 these  trees  so  very  often,  but  you  guys 
 know  they  are  on  my  list  of  fan 
 favorites  because  they  are  tough,  and  I 
 love  this  wispy  frond  to  them.  Now,  we 
 had  three  pygmy  palms  around  the 
 centerpiece  tree.  This  is  a  direct  view 
 line  from  Pat's  windows  or  his  doors 
 right  from  the  front  and  right  from  the 
 front  door  of  his  house.  This  is  what  he 
 sees.  And  I  know  he  wanted  to  keep  the 
 water  line  pretty  close.  Unfortunately, 
 I  could  not  find  pygmies  any  taller.  And 
 so  I  told  him,  I  said, "I  can  bring 
 these  in.  They're  going  to  be  a  bit 
 short  for  right  now,  but  in  time,  they 
 really  are  going  to  create  that  perfect 
 level  of  privacy  that  he's  looking  for. 
 Once  these  guys  hit  their  maturity  at 
 right  around  12t  tall,  they'll  have  four 
 four  and  1/2t  of  trunk.  The  rest  of  it 
 will  be  canopy.  And  that  is  going  to  do, 
 I  guess  you  guys  can  guess  what  it's 
 going  to  do.  It's  going  to  completely 
 block  out  those  house  lines  from  his 
 viewpoint  right  outside  his  front  door, 
 right  outside  his  back  doors  that  open 
 up  to  his  screen  room.  This  is  going  to 
 become  a  wall  kind  of  like  the  fishtail 
 palms  do,  but  instead  of  being  solid  all 
 the  way  to  the  top,  they're  going  to  be 
 nice  and  open  at  the  trunk  and  create 
 kind  of  like  a  palm  hedge  along  the 
 backside  to  really  give  him  the  wall, 
 not  see  the  roof  lines,  not  see  the 
 house  lines,  but  still  see  the  water 
 lines.  So,  um,  so  if  you  guys  can  bring 
 them  in  a  little  bit  larger,  if  you  find 
 them  at  nurseries  where  they  have  more 
 leg  and  then  the  canopy  is  is  higher  and 
 they're  around  9  or  10  foot,  ideal.  They 
 are  hard  to  find  at  that  size  because 
 they  grow  kind  of  slow,  but  they  do  when 
 once  they're  planted,  once  they're 
 installed,  once  they're  full  grown,  they 
 stay  there  for  a  very  long  time.  So, 
 this  becomes  a  long-term  fix.  The  next 
 intermediate  tree  is  going  to  be  the 
 bottle  palm.  And  you  guys  know  I  love  my 
 bottle  palms.  I  just  love  what  they  do 
 in  the  garden.  I  think  they're 
 absolutely  just  an  interesting  kind  of 
 architectural  detail  in  the  garden  with 
 those  big  trunks  and  how  they  bow  out. 
 This  guy  is  still  very  young.  He  was  a 
 25  gallon  when  we  put  him  in  about  5  and 
 1/2t  tall  and  um  but  max  out  at  14t  and 
 when  they're  when  this  is  14t  it  is 
 going  to  offer  shade  all  in  this  area 
 right  here.  So  you  can  put  farfu,  you 
 can  put  rojo  congos,  you  can  put  just 
 tons  of  stuff  because  even  at  14  foot, 
 these  canopies  will  have  quadrupled  in 
 size  and  really  branch  out  and  fill  and 
 create  like  an  umbrella  around  here.  Now 
 a  foxtail  will  only  offer  so  much  shade 
 because  it  is  so  tall  at  its  full  grown 
 height  of  20some  height  where  this  tree 
 itself  here  will  stay  kind  of  squatted 
 and  small  and  really  offer  a  nice  bit  of 
 shade  underneath  of  it.  So,  it  is  the 
 perfect  tree  to  kind  of  create  a  little 
 shade  garden,  a  little  pocket  of  shade 
 garden.  Now,  they  do  like  a  little 
 filtered  protection  when  you  plant  them. 
 So,  go  ahead  if  you  plant  a  bottle  palm, 
 plant  a  couple  trees  around  them,  like  a 
 foxtail,  like  a  queen,  like  a  royal 
 palm,  anything  that's  going  to  kind  of 
 give  you  a  little  bit  of  coverage 
 because  they're  the  perfect  under  canopy 
 tree.  They're  always  meant  to  be  kind  of 
 a  a  second  story  tree  or  secondary  tree 
 to  a  bigger  canopy  tree  and  it's  really 
 going  to  give  you  that  multi-layer  look. 
 So  these  guys,  pygmy  date  palms, 
 pentopsis,  those  are  trees  that  are 
 going  to  offer  you  a  great  deal  of  shade 
 underneath  that  underneath  their 
 canopies  because  they're  going  to  stay 
 more  squatted,  more  more  canopy  than 
 they  are  going  to  be  trunk.  And  then  of 
 course  your  trees  above  them  are  going 
 to  offer  those  trees  the  protection.  And 
 then  you  have  a  heavy  tropical  garden 
 that  is  kind  of,  you  know,  helping  each 
 other  with  changing  the  microclimates 
 around  it.  taking  it  away  from  a  full 
 sun  bright  bright  spot  to  more  of  a 
 filtered  light  environment  to  give  you  a 
 lot  of  opportunity  for  so  many  different 
 plants  and  accents  for  underneath  those 
 groupings.  So  you  guys,  it's  just  that 
 easy.  If  this  is  kind  of  what  you're 
 looking  for,  if  you're  looking  to  create 
 something  like  this  or  you're  looking  to 
 have  a  landscape  designer  or  mwah, 
 someone  like  me  create  something  like 
 this  for  you,  then  please  reach  out  to 
 us.  Our  contact  information  will  be  down 
 below  and  we'd  be  happy  to  do  kind  of  a 
 similar  thing  that  we  did  for  Pat  here. 
 We  did  all  the  heavy  lifting  and  then 
 you  get  to  do  the  fun  stuff  down  below. 
 If  this  is  a  kind  of  video  that  you 
 enjoy  watching,  if  you're  looking  for 
 some  suggestions  or  or  just  some  just 
 some  inspiration,  then  um  check  out  our 
 latest  garden  tour.  We  post  every  single 
 weekend.  Please  like  and  subscribe  and 
 we  will  see  you  next  weekend  at  the  very 
 next  tour.  Take 
 care.  Take  care. 
 I'm  going  to

---

 So,  congratulations  gardeners.  You  have 
 gotten  the  plants.  You've  gotten  your 
 trees.  You've  dug  the  holes.  You  put 
 them  all  into  the  ground.  You've  mulched 
 them.  You're  completely  satisfied  with 
 the  work  that  you've  done  or  had  done. 
 And  you're  like,  "Now  what?  What  next? 
 How  do  I  keep  this  landscaping  gorgeous 
 and  thriving?  And  what  do  I  do  next?" 
 So,  I  do  virtual  consults  where  clients 
 can  ask  me  questions  on  what  to  do  with 
 this  or  what  to  do  with  that,  like  small 
 areas  that  they  might  be  struggling 
 with.  And  I  was  so  surprised  how  often  I 
 got  this  question  like,  "Okay,  so  you 
 talk  about,  you  know,  combination 
 plants.  You  talk  about,  you  know,  what 
 to  do  over  time  when  what,  you  know,  but 
 what  do  we  do  after  that  landscaping's 
 in?  What  do  we  do  to  create  that  that 
 just  that  lush  tropical  foliage  to 
 really  take  off  and  grow?"  And  so  I'm 
 going  to  tell  you  guys  exactly  what  I 
 tell  all  of  my  clients  right  after  the 
 planting.  It's  as  simple  as  four  steps 
 to  keeping  your  garden  from  going 
 downhill  and  keeping  it  really  thriving. 
 So  the  very  first  thing  is  water.  So  I 
 know  we  always  say  water,  water,  water, 
 but  the  exact  what  I  tell  my  clients  to 
 do  is  water.  If  you  have  sandy  soil  like 
 my  client  does  here,  we're  getting  ready 
 to  do  this  tour.  If  you  have  sandy  soil 
 like  that,  then  you're  going  to  water 
 want  to  water  every  single  day  for  about 
 30  minutes  a  day.  And  that  I  know  that 
 seems  excessive,  but  I  promise  you 
 that's  really  going  to  help  those  roots 
 kind  of  start  to  spread  and  pull  out. 
 You're  going  to  dial  back  that  water 
 after  30  days.  you  can  do  every  other 
 day  after  30  days  for  the  same  amount  of 
 time.  And  then  you're  going  to  move 
 yourself  into  a  90-day  cycle  where 
 you're  watering  three  days  a  week.  And 
 that's  kind  of the  goal.  Three  days  a 
 week  is  an  awesome  amount  of  time  to 
 water  for  approximately  30  to  45  minutes 
 just  depending  on  what  you're  what  you 
 know  what's  allotted  for  your  area.  But 
 those  are  great  basic  lines  to  follow. 
 Now,  if  you  have  clay  soil  where  the 
 water  kind  of  runs  off  and  it  doesn't 
 stay  very  long,  you  may,  believe  it  or 
 not,  have  to  water  that  first  month  a 
 couple  times  a  day  for  10-minute 
 intervals.  So,  you  might  have  to  water 
 late  in  the  evening  or  early  early  in 
 the  morning  for  about  10  minutes.  Let 
 that  water,  it'll  sit  on  the  top.  Some 
 of  it  will  percolate  down,  the  rest  of 
 it  will,  you  know,  unfortunately  you'll 
 lose  it.  But,  you're  going  to  want  to 
 kind  of  get  those  plants  ready  and 
 established.  And  what  you're  trying  to 
 do  is  you're  trying  to  get  your  plants 
 to  realize  that  gosh,  you're  not  in 
 survival  mode.  You're  not  starving 
 yourself.  You're  going  to  actually  push 
 them  to  say,  "Okay,  there's  moisture  out 
 there.  Let's  go  out  and  find  it."  So, 
 that  is  the  goal  to  get  them 
 established.  And  then  you're  going  to 
 dial  that  water  way  back  because 
 tropicals  don't  need  tons  and  tons  of 
 water.  So,  before  we  get  into  the  next 
 tip,  you  guys  be  sure  to  like  and 
 subscribe.  Bryce  and  I  put  these  videos 
 out  every  single  weekend.  And  if  this  is 
 the  kind  of  content  that  you  like  to 
 watch,  a  little  bit  of  learning  about 
 plants  and  trees,  a  little  bit  about 
 showing  plant  and  tree  material  off, 
 what  does  well  in  our  area,  then 
 definitely  hit  that  like  and  subscribe 
 button  as  long  as  that  as  well  as  that 
 little  notification  bell.  Okay,  you 
 guys.  So,  for  tip  two,  tip  two  is  more 
 like  an  advanced  warning.  You  know,  this 
 is  probably  going  to  happen  when  it 
 comes  to  your  palm  trees  especially.  So, 
 if  you  had  gone  to  the  garden  center  and 
 you  put  that  bad  boy  in  the  back  of  your 
 truck  and  the  garden  guys  wrapped  up 
 that  canopy  with  some  rope,  that  way  you 
 can  corral  it  into  your  backyard  and 
 install  it  um  into  your  garden.  Then 
 it's  you  untie  that  canopy  and 
 beautiful,  beautiful  green.  But  then 
 about  two  weeks  later,  you  see  tons  of 
 brown  foliage  on  there  and  you're  like, 
 what  is  happening?  What  is  going  wrong? 
 This  is  something  I  tell  my  clients 
 right  from  the  beginning.  It  is  common 
 for  transplanted  trees  from  one  location 
 to  the  other.  When  you  tie  those 
 canopies  up  on  those  palms,  they  get 
 rope  burn.  They  do  not  like  it.  They  do 
 not  love  us  for  it.  Now,  they  will 
 reproduce  very  quickly,  but  that  is  just 
 a  normal  process.  You  know,  we  try  to  do 
 it  for  such  a  minimal  amount  of  time. 
 You  know,  if  it's  done  for  a  few  hours, 
 less  of  the  fronds  are  going to  get 
 damaged.  They  get  a  little  bit  more 
 water.  Less  of  the  fronds  will  show 
 attitude.  So,  those  are  two  things  that 
 you  can  help  to  combat  it.  like  don't 
 leave  those  that  canopy  tied  up  too 
 long.  Go  ahead  and  untie  that  guy  and 
 put  him  in  the  ground  and  then  know  that 
 a  couple  of  those  fronds,  you  know,  up 
 to  five  or  six  frrawns  will  go  brown  and 
 will  drop.  It's  nothing  you're  doing 
 wrong.  That  is  just  part  of  the  process 
 when  canopies  are  tied  up.  And  it  is 
 actually  better  to  tie  up  those  canopies 
 because  you're  really  protecting  the 
 crown  of  the  tree  when  you  do  that.  So 
 instead  of  you  doing  this  and  all  that 
 shaking  and  movement  that  goes  on  when 
 you're  trying  to  install  that  tree, 
 those  limbs  around  that  are  protecting 
 that  crown  from  breaking  or  getting 
 knocked  off.  So  it's  it's  a  good  thing 
 to  do,  but  you  you  know  the  consequence 
 is  is  that  you  will  get  some  brown 
 limbs.  But  the  ultimate  takeaway  is  that 
 it's  not  your  fault.  It's  just  the 
 normal  part  of  process  at  give  it  a 
 little  extra  water  and  it'll  be  fine. 
 It'll  bounce  back  and  give  you  tons  of 
 new  foliage  and  new  fronds  before  you 
 know  it.  So  tip  three  to  me  really  pays 
 off.  Now  as  a  landscape  contractor,  it's 
 part  of  our  process.  Once  the 
 landscaping  is  in,  once  the  good  soil  is 
 in,  we'll  top  coat  everything  with  a 
 root  starter  fertilizer.  Now,  I  know  um 
 I  know  what  people  are  going to  say,  you 
 shouldn't  fertilize  brand  new  plants.  It 
 could  burn  the  roots,  and  that's 
 absolutely  true.  But  you  can  go  in  with 
 a  gentle  fertilizer.  Now,  we  buy  it  big 
 bulk,  but  you  guys,  one  of  my  favorite 
 fertilizers  is  the  Osmicote  Plus.  I 
 mean,  it  is  it's  not  going  to  burn  any 
 roots.  You  can  put  it  in  just  after  the 
 planting.  So  once  the  planting's  in, 
 once  the  mulch  is  in,  take  that  bag  of 
 osmmaote  and  just  spread  it  along  the 
 mulch.  Just  kind  of  chicken  feed  it 
 along  the  mulched  area.  There  is  a  slow 
 release  on  there.  It's  kind  of  like  a 
 resin  that'll  break  down  over  time.  Can 
 last  around  3  to  6  months.  I  do  tend  to 
 do  that  the  first  three  months  and  then 
 the  second  three  months.  And  then  after 
 that,  you  can  go  to  your  regular 
 fertilizer  and  your  plants  are  just 
 going  to  really  take  off.  It's  just 
 really  going  to  get  those  roots  in  and 
 established  and  fast  growth  really, 
 really  fast.  Okay,  so  tip  four,  I  know 
 can  be  very  controversial,  so  I'm  going 
 to  going  to  take  a  load  off  for  this 
 one.  So  tip  four  is  weeds.  We  have  weeds 
 in  Florida.  We  cannot  want  to  talk  about 
 weeds  all  day  long,  but  we  have  them  and 
 we  have  them  in  the  garden.  And 
 especially  when  you  do  a  new 
 landscaping,  one  of  the  things  that  you 
 do  is  we  take  out  quite  a  bit  of  that 
 old  soil,  but  we  bring  in  new  mix  into 
 the  existing  remaining  soil.  Mix  it  all 
 together.  So  that  way  those  plants  and 
 trees  really  get  a  good  dose  of  both. 
 You  know,  they  get  the  old  so  they  can 
 establish  to  that  new  environment  very 
 well  and  they  get  the  new  for  the  boost 
 that  they're  going  to  need  to,  you  know, 
 get  them  strong  and  healthy.  However, 
 when  you  do  all  that  mixing  and  you  do 
 all  that  fertilizing  and  then  you  do  all 
 that  watering,  the  one  thing  that's 
 going  to  grow  is  any  seedling  that  is  in 
 that  ground  or  was  underneath  is  now  on 
 top  and  now  busting  out  to  get  into  the 
 garden.  So,  it  is  very  happy  and  is  very 
 healthy  because  you've  done  all  those 
 great  things  for  it.  So,  weeding  is 
 going  to  be  a  big  part.  The  first  six 
 months  of  a  brand  new  garden  is  the  most 
 crucial.  If  you  can  every  15  days  check 
 for  weeds  through  that  garden.  Whether 
 you're  taking  and  and  hand  pulling  them 
 out  and  getting  the  roots  and  everything 
 with  it,  then  ideal.  If  you  are  there's 
 a  claw  that  you  can  get,  I  think  it's 
 called  grandpa  claw.  I  I'll  get  it.  I'll 
 link  it  down  below.  And  you  put  it  in 
 there  and  you  twist  and  it  pulls  the 
 whole  root  out.  You  can  do  that  as  well. 
 Or  you  can  spray.  Now,  I  know  a  lot  of 
 people  don't  like  the  idea  of  spraying, 
 but  spraying  does  get  into  the  green 
 down  into  the  root  system.  so  that  one 
 weed  is  not  producing  seeds  for  multiple 
 weeds  creating  neighbors  of  weeds  all 
 the  way  around.  The  reason  why  I  say  the 
 first  six  months  is  so  crucial  is 
 because  all  of  those  new  weeds  are  going 
 to  start  to  really  kind  of  come  up  after 
 the  landscaping  starts  to  get 
 established.  So  the  first  six  months  is 
 all  of  those  weeds  that  are  that  were  in 
 the  ground  that  you  couldn't  get  out 
 during  um  during  demo  and  removal.  If 
 you  allow  those  weeds  to  become 
 full-blown  weeds,  now  those  weeds  will 
 produce  new  weeds.  And  you  kind  of  see 
 the  invasion  of  weeds  and  how  that 
 works.  But  if  you  stay  on  it,  takes 
 about  a  weed  about  15  days  to  go  from  a 
 seed  to  an  actual  weed.  If  you  hit  it 
 every  15  days,  like  on  your  calendar, 
 then  I'm  telling  you,  you're  really 
 going  to  eradicate  weeds  from  your 
 garden.  It  is  the  best  way  to  get  rid  of 
 them.  Go  through  and  either  spray  or 
 pull  or  whatever  your  method  is.  Hit 
 those  bad  boys  right  from  the  beginning. 
 and  that  way  they're  not  replicating  and 
 creating  a  a  havoc  of  weeds  throughout 
 your  whole  garden.  And  if  you  guys  run 
 across  anything  that  you've  done  in  your 
 garden  that  has  just  been  a  gamecher, 
 then  please  stick  in  the  comments  down 
 below.  Those  of  you  guys  who  are  looking 
 for  alternative  options,  read  those 
 comments  down  below  because  we  have  a 
 fantastic  community  of  gardeners  out 
 there.  You  guys  are  fabulous  and  you've 
 always  put  putting  really  good  details 
 into  the  comments  kind  of  sharing  your 
 advice  and  your  experience  and  and  some 
 of  your  failures  which  I  just  I  I  just 
 love  that  which  really  helps  a  lot  of 
 that  a  lot  of  folks  that  are  new  to 
 Florida  or  new  gardeners  in  general.  It 
 really  helps  them  kind  of  skip  those 
 some  of  those  bad  steps  that  you  know 
 that  a  lot  of  us  gardeners  have  made. 
 So,  I  know  today's  video  is  a  little  bit 
 different  than  the  norm,  but  if  you  like 
 video  content  like  this  that's  more 
 directed  towards  specific  things,  then 
 please  list  it  in  the  comments  down 
 below  because  I,  you  know,  I  want  to 
 help  as  many  people  as  I  can  and  it  just 
 I  didn't  realize  that  the  first  couple 
 months  of  planting.  I  mean,  I  tell  my 
 clients  that,  but  I've  never  done  a 
 video  based  on  that  until  I  did  my 
 virtual  consults  yesterday  and  got  hit 
 with  that  question  more  times  than  I 
 thought.  But  you  guys  may  be  aware  of 
 this.  So,  I  am  a  landscape  designer  and 
 we  do  projects  just  like  you're  going  to 
 see  here  behind  me.  We're  getting  ready 
 to  do  a  garden  tour  while  we're  here. 
 And  and  we  also  do  landscapes  designs 
 outside  those  areas.  And  now  most 
 recently,  we've  started  virtual 
 consults.  And  that's  what  I  was  doing 
 yesterday  when  I  got  some  of  these 
 questions.  And  it's  pretty  much 
 reviewing  individual  spaces  or  a  little 
 bit  of  help  with  this  or  with  that.  But 
 I'll  put  all  of  that  information  down 
 below.  You  guys  can  take  a  look  at  that 
 and  see  if  that's  going to  be  a  good  fit 
 for  you.  Please  contact  my  my 
 daughter-in-law,  Marissa.  She  handles 
 all  of  those  phone  calls  with  your  name 
 and  your  address  and  then  we'll  see  if 
 we're  going  to  be  a  good  fit  for  you 
 guys.  Bryce  says,  "Please  be  sure  to 
 leave  your  phone  number  so  that  way  she 
 can  reach  out  to  you  guys."  But  other 
 than  that,  yeah,  let  me  know  if  this 
 content  helps  and  if  you  enjoyed  today's 
 video,  then  you  might  enjoy  the  garden 
 tour  that  we  have  and  we'll  be  sure  to 
 post  it  right  over  here.  Take  care.

---

 Well,  hello  gardeners.  Welcome  back. 
 Today  I  want  to  talk  with  you  about  how 
 to  maximize  those  small  spaces  that  you 
 might  be  working  with  in  your  own  house 
 like  I'm  working  with  in  mine.  So,  about 
 a  year  and  a  half  ago,  I  did  a  living 
 wall  and  my  sideyard  section.  And  I 
 wanted  to  share  with  you  some  pros  and 
 cons  that  I've  dealt  with  along  the  way. 
 I've  absolutely  really  enjoyed  having 
 it.  I  feel  like  it's  flushed  out  and  it 
 really  does  the  job  of  making  big 
 impacts  for  what  is  a  generally  small 
 space.  This  area  is  about  5  foot  deep. 
 So  from  the  foundation  of  my  house  to 
 the  edge  of  this  patio  here  is  about  5 
 foot  wide  and  then  it  is  pretty  much 
 flat  along  the  side  north  side  of  my 
 house.  And  it  kind  of  covers  up  a 
 bathroom  window  that  was  fully  exposed 
 as  you  walk  along  this  walkway.  Now, 
 this  area  along  the  walkway  is  where  a 
 lot  of  my  guests  come  from  the  front 
 door  leading  to  my  backyard  patio 
 section.  So,  this  is  the  main  used  area 
 for  that  pathway.  So,  I  kind  of  wanted  I 
 wanted  it  to  carry  over.  I  wanted  it  to 
 have  that  same  kind  of  tropical  jungle 
 vibe  that  you  know  as  you're  coming 
 around  to  the  front  yard  or  from  the 
 front  yard  to  the  backyard  that  you're 
 really  starting  to  get  that  impact  as 
 you  come  around  this  corner.  So,  when 
 you  hit  this  gate,  it  kind  of  turns  into 
 more  of  a  secluded  garden  gate.  And  what 
 better  way  to  do  that  when  you  don't 
 have  a  lot  of  space  to  work  with  than  go 
 up.  So  I  I  guess  to  say  as  a  tropical 
 gardener,  I  wasn't  satisfied  with  how 
 much  I  could  do  with  the  width  of  this 
 space.  Instead,  we  ended  up  going 
 vertical.  So  we're  a  little  over  8  foot 
 tall. 
 Olive.  I  don't  know if  you  guys  saw 
 Olive  in  the  previous  video,  but  when  I 
 first  did  this  video,  she  was  a  brand 
 new  puppy,  and  this  is  her  now,  a  year 
 later,  and  she  is  nothing  but  trouble. 
 But  she  likes  to  make  her  cameos.  So, 
 before  we  were  so  interrupted  with  Olive 
 here,  um  I  wanted  to  share  with  you 
 guys,  um  kind  of  some  pros  and  cons  of 
 the  the  wall  structure  is.  And  later  in 
 the  video,  I  want  to  share  with  you, 
 Bryce  is  going  to  pop  up  kind  of  the 
 overall  supply  list  of  what  we  needed  to 
 create  this  space.  So,  for  you  DIYers 
 out  there,  I  wanted  you  to  have  kind  of 
 a  shopping  list  of  what  you  could  do  to 
 recreate  this  in  a  pinch  on  your  own. 
 And  because  I  just  think  that  it's 
 something  that  I  don't know,  everybody 
 should  try  and  hopefully  some  of  my  dos 
 will  help  and  some  of  my  don'ts  will 
 help  as  well  with  not  having  to  recreate 
 some  of  my  mistakes  in  the  garden.  For 
 the  first  pro,  I  would  say  is  just  look 
 at  the  impact  this  makes  in  the  space. 
 We've  got  nearly  40  plants  on  this  list 
 or  on  this  panel  here.  And  what  kind  of 
 impact  can  this  small  narrow  space  make 
 with  40  plants  if  it's  not  going 
 vertical?  I  really  do  feel  like  it  just 
 kind  of  comes  out  and  gets  you.  It  just 
 it  has  all  these  layers,  all  these 
 different  textures,  all  of  this 
 interest.  And  to  me,  that  is  such  a 
 significant  pro  because  it's  very  hard, 
 especially  in  our  Florida  gardens,  to 
 find  room  for  some  of  that  impact.  In 
 doing  so,  I  think  that  it  does  a  great 
 job  as  I  pair  it  with  my  water  feature 
 next  to  it.  I  think  that  that's  a  a 
 perfect  way  to  take  a  narrow  space  and 
 kind  of  create  something  really 
 interesting  with  it.  The  places  I 
 learned  that  the  most  are  some  of  those 
 resorts  that  I  got  to  travel  through  um 
 through  the  years.  You  know,  they  do 
 such  a  good  job  of  finding  little  key 
 little  corners  or  nooks  in  the  garden, 
 maybe  courtyard  spaces,  and  they've 
 popped  in  some  fountains  and  some  water 
 features  and  maybe  some  hanging  plants 
 or  some  hanging  pots  or  or  a  living 
 wall.  I  have  seen  some  living  wall 
 displays  that  are  absolutely  will  take 
 your  breath  away.  I'll  ask  Bryce  to  pop 
 in  a  picture  of  one  that  I  saw  on  Worth 
 Avenue  and  West  Palm  Beach.  And  you  guys 
 may  have  seen  it  if  you're  from  down 
 south  in  that  area.  And  I  just  think  it 
 is  every  time  I  see  it  takes  my  breath 
 away.  I  think  it  is  super  stunning.  And 
 so,  you  know,  to  me,  having  a  vertical 
 aspect  of  just  kind  of  something  right 
 in  your  face  where  you  see  those  layers 
 kind  of  pile  on  on  top  of  each  other  is 
 just  so  fabulous.  So,  I  hope  you  guys 
 agree.  But  the  second  pro  I  would  say  is 
 maintenance.  So,  I  I  I  know  people  have 
 said  a  living  wall  is  little  to  no 
 maintenance,  and  that  is  not  true.  There 
 is  maintenance  to  any  plants,  especially 
 in  Florida.  But  the  maintenance  is  about 
 this  much.  So,  if  you  had  40  plants  in 
 the  garden  that  was  taking  over  and 
 being  real  lush  and  real  tropical,  then 
 you  would  be  in  there  weeding.  You'd  be 
 in  there  trimming.  You'd  be  in  there 
 separating.  Not  the  case  with  these 
 guys.  So,  your  minimal  maintenance  comes 
 from  just  clipping  any  kind  of  brown 
 that  you  see  in  the  garden  and  just  kind 
 of  removing  that  from  the  wall  itself.  I 
 mean,  it's  really  it's  really  such  a 
 small  thing.  I  do  it  every  once  in  a 
 while.  Overall,  I  I've  picked  out  little 
 to  no  weeds  in  this  space  because  this 
 is  not  getting  a  whole  lot  of  debris 
 that's  sitting  in  those  areas.  It's  nice 
 and  full  and  nice  and  compact.  And  best 
 thing  of  all  is  I  am  not  bent  over 
 weeding  or  clipping  as  I'm  trimming. 
 This  is  a  trimming  like  this.  You  know, 
 pretty  much  overall,  unless  you're 
 scared  of  heights,  you  guys,  because  I 
 do  have  to  get  on  the  ladder  and  trim 
 the  upper  areas.  And  this  probably  why 
 you  notice  that  those  areas  need  more 
 trimming  than  the  rest  of  it  because  I 
 do  that  a  lot  less  time.  But  I  would  say 
 during  the  year,  a  little  over  a  year 
 that  I've  had  this  living  wall,  I  have 
 trimmed  it  twice  and  you  could  have  used 
 it  more.  But,  you  know,  I  like  a  natural 
 jungle  vibe.  So,  I'm  not  worried  with 
 some  brown  leaves  here  and  there. 
 Overall,  I  think  the  maintenance  on  a 
 living  wall  is  about  this  much  compared 
 to  the  maintenance  overall  in  a  plant 
 grouping.  Now,  when  I  fertilize,  I  do 
 something  very  simple.  I  use  the  Miracle 
 Grow  hose  fertilizer,  the  attachment, 
 and  I  just  kind  of  go  through  this  and 
 it  makes  everything  just  lush  and 
 tropical  and  just  absolutely  blooming. 
 It  takes  me  like  2  minutes  to  do  it.  I 
 just  kind  of  give  everything  a  good 
 dose,  but  it  that's  all  it  is.  And  as 
 far  as  watering,  because  of  the  way  the 
 system  set  up,  and  as  I  mentioned,  we'll 
 get  into  that  a  little  bit  later  in  the 
 video,  it  is  there's  no  watering 
 involved.  It's  it's  set  up  to  water 
 itself.  So  I  I  think  overall  the  time 
 that  I  spend  on  this  wall  versus  the 
 rest  of  the  garden  is  just  a  minuscule 
 amount.  It's  just  so  so  small.  So  I 
 think  that  if  you  have  a  small  space, 
 need  a  big  impact,  there's  not  much  more 
 that  you  can  get  with  like  working  with 
 kind  of a  structure  like  this  with  the 
 amount  of  maintenance  that's  involved. 
 And  a  quick  shout  out  to  one  of  my 
 subscribers,  Kimberly.  Hello,  Kimberly. 
 This  is  part  of the  reason  why  we  wanted 
 to  do  this  video.  You  know,  Bryce  had 
 mentioned  that  you  were  thinking  about 
 doing  a  living  wall  and  you  needed  some 
 advice  on  it.  So,  I  thought,  you  know 
 what?  This  is  a  time  for  an  update.  And 
 I'm  so  sorry,  you  guys.  I've  been 
 meaning  to  do  an  update  on  this  wall 
 forever.  And  it  wasn't  until  we  got 
 Kimberly's  message  that  I  was  like,  go  a 
 yes,  we  need  to  do  an  update  on  the 
 living  wall.  And  so,  shout  out  to  you.  I 
 cannot  wait  to  see  pictures.  I  hope  it 
 turns  out  absolutely  beautifully.  And  I 
 hope  this  video  helps  you  once  Bryce 
 puts  in  the  kind  of  details  on  how  to 
 construct  it  for  yourself. 
 So,  let's  start  with  the  plants  that  I 
 would  not  use  again.  Now,  the  sword 
 ferns  I  know  are  a  golden  plant  when  it 
 comes  to  potted  plants.  I  mean,  they're 
 great  for  your  front  entrance  way.  They 
 really  fold  over.  They  get  lush  and  they 
 get  full.  And  I  thought  they  would  do 
 that  as  a  topper  to  this  area  because  I 
 kind  of  wanted  something  that  was  going 
 to  kind  of  come  up  and  kind  of  fold  over 
 and  top  over  this  this  top  of  this 
 feature  so  it  didn't  feel  so  flattened 
 off.  And  I  encourage  you  guys  to  do 
 that.  I  totally  think  if  you're  if  you 
 have  the  protection  of  maybe  from  the 
 sun,  use  bird's  nest  ferns  or  use 
 something  that's  going  to  kind  of  come 
 up  and  come  over  and  fold  over  that  top 
 just  to  soften  that  so  you  lose  some  of 
 that  hardness  at  the  top  of  the  wall  so 
 it  doesn't  look  so  man-made.  Now,  my 
 problem  with  the  bird's  nest  fern  is 
 that  it  there  was  just  more  trimming 
 involved  than  what  I  wanted,  especially 
 for  a  top  tier  plant.  And  then  it  throws 
 out  those  aerial  roots  that  are 
 constantly  and  I'll  get  Bryce  to  slide 
 in  a  picture  of  what  it  looks  like  from 
 behind,  but  they're  constantly  throwing 
 out  those  roots  from  the  back  and  from 
 the  front.  The  front  I  keep  trimmed,  but 
 I  just  think  it  wasn't  appropriate  for 
 what  I  was  looking  for.  It  didn't  do 
 what  I  wanted  it  to  do.  I  would  totally 
 go  back  with  something  softer.  I 
 absolutely  love  what  these  burmilads  are 
 doing.  They're  really  grown  in  lovely, 
 kind  of  multiplied,  and  now  they're 
 starting  to  crawl,  which  is  exactly  what 
 they  would  do  in  nature.  And  that's  what 
 we're  trying  to  replicate  that.  Unlike 
 the  sword  ferns  which  have  kind  of  come 
 in  and  now  I  have  to  um  kind  of  the  ones 
 that  I've  taken  out  I've  had  to  cut  out 
 of  the  pots  just  because  the  roots  are 
 so  aggressive.  And  I  should  know  this  as 
 a  landscaper,  you  know,  working  with 
 them  in  gardens.  But  honestly,  I  don't 
 work  with  them  a  lot  in  the  garden  just 
 because  of  their  aggressiveness  anyway. 
 I  thought  they'd  be  great  in  a  pot  as 
 far  as  a  hanging  wall  because  of  that 
 feathery  kind  of  soft  frrawn  leaf,  but 
 in  my  case,  they  just  didn't  work  out 
 for  what  I  wanted  them  to  work  out  for. 
 So,  that  is  definitely  one  of  my  cons 
 when  it  comes  to  this  garden.  So,  the 
 next  thing  I  would  change  if  I  were  to 
 do  this  again  is  something  that  I'm 
 already  in  the  process  of  doing.  So, 
 when  I  first  started  this  living  wall,  I 
 used  regular  soil.  I  used  my  normal  mix. 
 So,  I  used  a  little  bit  of  Pete  Moss,  a 
 little  bit  of  really  good  black  cow,  and 
 thinking  that  would  really  kind  of  help 
 give  everything  the  nutrients  that  it 
 needed  to  get  started.  However,  these 
 pots  are  so  small,  and  that  did  it 
 retained  more  water  than  I  wanted.  So, 
 with  my  new  plantings  that  are  doing  so 
 much  better,  I've  popped  out  plants  that 
 have,  you  know,  not  done  well  and 
 incorporated  plants  that  are  now  doing 
 well.  With  that,  I've  used  the  cocoa 
 core.  Let  me  show  you  guys  what  my 
 secret  is.  So,  the  cocoa  core  is  it 
 comes  in  like  a  brick  form.  That's  my 
 favorite  kind  and  I  love  it  from  this 
 company.  This  is  not  a  sponsored  video. 
 This  is  just  something  that  I  absolutely 
 love  working  with.  You  just  cut  off  a 
 piece  of  this  brick.  You  put  it  into 
 water.  You  add  a  little  bit  of  perlite 
 with  it.  Now,  I  know  I've  said  in  the 
 past  that  I  use  hardwood  mulch  instead 
 of  perlite,  but  for  these  little  baskets 
 like  this,  perlite  is  ideal.  So,  a 
 mixture  of  this  with  perlite  does  a 
 fabulous  job.  This  will  expand  like  this 
 will  like  fill  nine  pots.  I  mean,  it's 
 amazing  how  this  little  brick  will  work. 
 That's  why  I  love  keeping  them  just  like 
 this  because  I  can  stick  them  on  my 
 shelf,  use  them  when  I  want  to.  Put  a 
 brick  in  some  water,  it  expands.  I  can 
 add  it  to  my  plant  potting  mix  when  I'm 
 ready.  So,  you  do  50%  this,  50%  perlite, 
 put  it  in  those  little  pots,  and  then  it 
 does  a  fantastic  job.  And  what  it  does 
 is  once  it  expands,  it  will  it  will  kind 
 of  create  more  of  a  compost  mix  in  your 
 planting  area.  The  roots  love  to  grab  a 
 hold  of  it.  When  it  gets  too  wet,  it  the 
 water  will  just  drain  out.  Unlike  with 
 soil,  it  really  stays  saturated  and 
 really  can  hold  water  there  way  longer. 
 But  the  two  combination  of  these  two 
 things,  I've  not  had  to  worry  about  any 
 kind  of  root  rot  or  any  kind  of  issue. 
 Whatever  they  don't  need  water-wise,  it 
 drains  out.  So,  it's  been  an  ideal 
 product  to  use.  So,  if  I  were  to  start 
 this  all  over  again,  that  would  be  the 
 mix  that  I  would  go  to.  So,  the  next 
 thing  I  would  do  as  far  as  uh  a  mistake 
 I  guess  I'd  made  is  I  just  looked  at  the 
 space  and  in  all  the  years  of  living 
 here,  this  is  the  north  side  of  my 
 property.  I  thought,  well,  this  is  such 
 a  shady  area  that  I  can  really  go  in 
 with  all  shade  plants  for  this  whole 
 living  wall.  What  I  didn't  consider  is 
 because  I'm  used  to  planting  ground 
 side,  you  know,  I'm  used  to  planting 
 along  the  ground  that  I  didn't  think 
 about  the  upper  area  and  how  that  is 
 going  to  penetrate  from  the  front  of  my 
 house.  how  the  sun  hits  it.  So,  this 
 whole  upper  section  burnt  for  the 
 longest  time.  I  mean,  the  very  first 
 summer  that  I  had  here,  it  pretty  much 
 just  torched  the  whole  top  section  of  my 
 living  wall.  This  whole  bottom  section 
 of  shade  plants  did  superior  did  very, 
 very  well  because,  you  know,  it  did,  you 
 know,  it  worked  for  what,  you  know,  what 
 it  was  meant  for  because  this  is  a  nice 
 shady  spot.  But  I  didn't  anticipate  kind 
 of  how  the  rays  of  the  sun  would  come 
 in.  And  I  feel  like  as  a  gardener  that 
 that's  something  that  that  I  do  in 
 different  environments  and  you  know  in 
 landscapes,  but  I  just  it  it  it  just 
 didn't  dawn  on  me  during  the 
 installation  of  my  living  wall.  So  that 
 top  layer  should  have  been  something 
 sunloving.  So  as  time's  gone  on,  I 
 popped  out  plants  and  put  in  other 
 plants  that  that  are  doing  much  much 
 better.  So  I've  got  some  porchaka  or  if 
 you  guys  call  them  plane  here.  They're 
 still  asleep  for  the  morning  because 
 we're  in  the  in  the  the  early  early  part 
 of  the  day  right  now.  But,  um,  when  they 
 open  up,  you  guys,  that  bright  orange 
 and  yellow  is  just  so  stunning.  And  that 
 is  right  on  that  corner  where  the  sun 
 just  kind  of  hits  because  it  goes  in 
 between  the  two  trees  that  I  have  on 
 this  corner.  Really,  really  filters 
 through  and  hits  just  the  corner  of  the 
 house  with  that  nice  bright  ray  of  sun. 
 And  that's  exactly  what  they  needed.  So 
 all  day  long  they  are  opened  up  and 
 gorgeous  when  the  sun  starts  to  come  out 
 and  hits  those  areas  and  I  just  think 
 it's  stunning.  So  I'm  going  to  go  across 
 the  top  of  the  rest  of  the  living  wall 
 with  some  draping  plants  that  can  really 
 handle  that  kind  of  sun.  So  kind  of  pay 
 attention  to  your  area.  If  you're 
 thinking  about  putting  a  living  wall, 
 don't  just  look  at  the  side  of  the  house 
 like  I  did.  You  know,  look  and  see  gosh, 
 you  know  that  it's  kind  of  hitting  the 
 top  of  my  window.  I  can  see  the  sunlight 
 hit  the  roof  line  of  my  house.  So,  um, 
 know  that  your  living  wall  is  now  going 
 to  be,  you  know,  6  to  7  foot  to  8  foot 
 tall  depending  on,  you  know,  your 
 location  and  then  determine  your  kind  of 
 plant  groupings  from  there.  So,  one  of 
 the  last  things  I  want  to  mention  before 
 we  get  into  the  breakdown  of  the 
 structure  is  that  you  guys,  if  you're 
 building  a  living  wall,  don't  just  look 
 at  the  frame  and  work  with  just  what's 
 in  front  of  you  here.  Kind  of  make  sure 
 that  you've  like  built  the  environment 
 around  it  because  that's  exactly,  you 
 know,  that's  exactly  what  designers 
 dream  up.  So,  if  that's  kind  of  your 
 goal  and  you're  diying  it  yourself, 
 then,  you  know,  think  about  like  the 
 surrounding  area.  So,  we  do  have  the 
 living  wall  structure  here.  I 
 incorporated  some  driftwood  along  the 
 front  so  that  way  I  have  some  impact, 
 some  long  braces,  some  long  um  hangers 
 that  are  here  to  kind  of  give  us  a 
 little  bit  of  impact  so  that  the  living 
 wall  comes  out  at  you.  But  what  I  love 
 the  most  is  that  um  this  little  this 
 little  rock  section  here.  I  I  love  the 
 mixture  of  stones,  adding  the  flag  stone 
 here,  having  a  light  shine  up  on  the 
 wall.  So  when  you're  walking  through 
 this  area,  you  just  kind  of  see  a  glow 
 through  this  whole  this  whole  living 
 wall.  So  it's  almost  like  setting  the 
 scene,  you  guys.  If  you  got  a  place  to 
 incorporate  a  small  fountain, 
 incorporate  it.  No matter  how  small  it 
 is,  but  it  adds  a  little  bit  of  texture, 
 different  shape  in  the  garden.  If  you 
 can  incorporate  some  different  kinds  of 
 stones  and  edge  them  with  different 
 rocks  or  even  bring  in  some  edging  in 
 there,  just  kind  of  separate  that  look. 
 do  that  because  you  know  when  you're 
 working  with  small  spaces,  those  are 
 often  the  hardest  areas  to  work  in.  When 
 we  have  big  areas  to  work  in  as 
 landscape  designers,  we  love  it  because 
 we  can  do  drifts  of  this  and  drifts  of 
 that  and  kind  of  intertwine  and  kind  of 
 create  color  and  interest  with  those 
 ways.  But  when  you  have  a  very  small 
 area  to  work  with,  then  you're  hitting 
 like  a  powerhouse  of  something  and  then 
 an  impact  of  something  else  and  you  kind 
 of  need  to  kind  of  frame  all  the  way 
 around  it  and  it's  a  tiny  area  to  work 
 in.  So  kudos  to  you  guys  who  are  out 
 there  trying  to  make  that  small  space 
 pretty  amazing  because  it  it's  not  an 
 easy  thing.  That's  why  I  really  hope 
 this  video  becomes  helpful  to  you  guys 
 and  and  you  can  kind  of  take  this  as  a  a 
 bit  of  inspiration  saying,  "Oh,  I  kind 
 of  see  where  she  was  going  with  that." 
 And  then  incorporate  it  and  make  it  your 
 own.  So  now  for  the  fun  stuff.  Now  for 
 the  real  stuff.  If  you  guys  are  waiting 
 for  just  the  kind  of  overall 
 construction  of  this  particular  wall, 
 then  screenshot  this  bad  boy  because 
 we're  going  to  lay  it  all  out  for  you. 
 So  to  start  with,  you  want  to  start  with 
 a  freestanding  wall.  You  know,  just 
 being  able  to  get  all  the  way  around  the 
 wall.  Whether  even  if  it's  like  me  where 
 you  only  have  a  couple  foot  to  walk 
 behind  it,  it  is  well  worth  getting  it 
 off  the  house.  So  this  wall  sits  about 
 two  and  a  half  foot  off  of  my  house.  And 
 I've  got  two  4x4  post  flanking  each 
 side.  Those  are  our  support  posts.  And 
 then  I've  got  four  1x4  panels.  The  one 
 that  runs  along  the  top  through  the 
 middle  and  down  two  down  below  on  the 
 bottom.  Those  are  the  things  that 
 support  the  panels  that  we  put  up  on  top 
 of  those.  We  have  three  2  by  six  panels 
 and  we've  attached  those  to  those  those 
 boards,  those  linear  boards  that  are 
 going  across  here.  So,  those  panels, 
 those  wire  panels  are  what's  holding  up 
 our  pots.  So,  we  instantly  create  with 
 that  space  a  nice  solid  structural  wall. 
 Now,  I  did  I  don't  know  if  I  mentioned 
 this,  but  I  did  put  dry  set  concrete,  a 
 bag  of  in  each  under  those  4x4  columns 
 just  to  give  us,  of  course,  that  strong 
 support  structure  because  this  can  get 
 heavy,  you  know,  with  the  plants  and 
 over  time.  Definitely  want  to  make  sure 
 that  your  structure  is  freestanding  and 
 strong.  Then  we  incorporated  40  baskets. 
 Why  40  baskets?  Cuz  that's  what  fit.  If 
 I  could  have  fit  50,  I  would  have  put  50 
 on  there.  But,  you  know,  so  to  each  his 
 own.  And  if  you're  going  to  do  more  free 
 flowing  vines  and  bigger  material,  maybe 
 longer  filidendrans,  things  like  that, 
 you  might  need  less  plants  to  fill  up 
 that  kind  of  space.  But  I  had  a  mixture. 
 I've  got  some  poo  in  here  that  are  big 
 fillers,  but  then  I've  got  things  like 
 bird's  nest  ferns  that  are  kind  of 
 compact  at  the  base  and  then  fan  out,  so 
 they  don't  take  up  a  lot  of  room  and 
 burmilads  and  so  on.  So  I  didn't  want  a 
 bunch  of  gaps  in  my  walls.  If  you  want 
 bigger  plants  that  are  bushier,  then 
 obviously  you  need  less  pots.  But 
 that's,  you  know,  that's  make  it  your 
 own  your  own  style  for  your  own  space. 
 So,  40  plants  in  general  here,  which  I 
 know  feels  like  it's  probably  a  lot. 
 There's  no  way  I  could  have  put  that  in 
 the  ground  and  had  that  many  plants  kind 
 of  really  fill  in  these  gaps.  I'm  going 
 to  do  my  best  to  kind  of  just  point  to 
 the  plant  and  and  hit  the  names  of  those 
 plants.  I  have  a  lot  of  replicated 
 plants  in  here,  so  I  won't  there  won't 
 be  40  individual  varieties.  But,  as  I 
 mentioned  before,  that  top  section  there 
 are  the  sword  ferns.  They're  probably 
 coming  out  shortly.  I've  got  a  mix  of  a 
 little  bit  of  macho  ferns  in  there  that 
 might  be  still  tucked  in,  but  I've 
 removed  most  of  those  because  again,  too 
 much  sunlight.  They  just  kind  of  burnt 
 up  on  me.  And  then  I  have  the  Athereum 
 pearly  whites  here.  I  just  think  they're 
 doing  so  well.  Just  really  filling  in 
 this  spot,  kind  of  giving  us  a  fern-like 
 look.  They  are  getting  a  little  bit  of 
 sun  from  that  corner,  but  overall 
 they're  a  perfect  shade  plant,  but 
 they're  very,  very  tough.  And  then  I've 
 got  a  mix  of  this  right  here  is  just  a 
 dwarf  alicia.  These  are  from  pups  from 
 my  garden.  Anytime  I  get  a  pup,  I'll 
 just  take  that  off  and  then  pop  it  right 
 into  these  little  planters.  Even  if  I've 
 got  a  plant  growing  out  of  it,  I'll  just 
 kind  of  put  them  on  the  side  and,  you 
 know,  just  to  add  a  little  bit  of  extra 
 flare  because  I  like  to  soften  these 
 edges.  Like  I  like  to  soften  the  top.  So 
 having  something  protrude  over  to  the 
 side  and  come  up  over  the  top 
 naturalizes  that  flat  wall  space.  This 
 is  just  a  little  little  bit  of  alicacia 
 that  you  can  kind  of  use  throughout  your 
 garden.  And  I  love  how  I  can  source 
 those  everywhere.  But  it  has  grown  in, 
 taken  off,  and  done  super  super  well. 
 I've  got  a  lemon  lime  poo  vine  here.  I 
 know  poo  are  one  of  those  things  that 
 people  love  and  hate  because  they  can 
 really  take  over  a  space.  I  personally 
 love  them  for  this  kind  of  environment. 
 They're  off  of  my  wall.  I  can  allow  them 
 to  drape  drape  until  they  get  almost  to 
 the  ground  and  then  I  clip  that  bad  boy. 
 I'll  take  those  clippings  and  put  it 
 into  another  pot  and  start  over  again. 
 So,  as  long  as  you  know  a  couple  times  a 
 year  you  go  out  and  you  just  kind  of 
 clip  what  you  don't  want,  they're  an 
 ideal  plant  to  work  with.  Do  not  let 
 them  get  into  the  ground,  though, 
 because  they  can  take  over  and  fill  in  a 
 spotlight.  Nobody's  business.  So, 
 perfect  for  a  hanging  wall,  though.  So 
 many  different  varieties,  limelight, 
 variegated.  You  got  the  dark  greens  with 
 the  variegation.  I  mean,  there's  just 
 like  tons  and  tons  and  tons  of  poo  that 
 you  can  work  with.  And  they  fill  out 
 great.  Handle  low  light,  handle  partial 
 light,  and  handle  moisture  and  and  very 
 little  moisture.  So,  it's  amazing  what 
 they'll  what  they'll  work  with.  I've  got 
 again  some  ferns  here  um  mixed  in  just 
 the  the  ones  that  are  going  to  be 
 remaining.  I  don't  know  the  variety  of 
 this.  I  got  this  from  the  home  show  and 
 if  you  guys  know  it,  please  let  me  know 
 because  I  I  keep  meaning  to  look  it  up, 
 but  I  really  do  like  the  look  of  it. 
 It's  kind  of  got  a  cool  light  green 
 almost  like  a  silver  tone  to  the  leaf. 
 Imagine  it's  in  the  filidendran  family, 
 but  I'm  not  really  sure.  So,  if  you  guys 
 know  it,  please  stick  in  the  comments 
 down  below  because  I  would  love  to  know 
 what  I  got.  I  just  found  it  in  the 
 little  sale  rack  at  the  at  the  garden 
 show  and  you  know,  I've  obviously  potted 
 it  in  here.  So,  one  of  my  favorite 
 plants  of  all  time.  I  put  this  in  the 
 ground.  I  put  this  on  trees.  I  put  this 
 on  the  wall.  I've  just  never  had  a 
 failing  point  with  these  birds  nest 
 ferns.  I  love  the  way  they  pop  out.  They 
 just  really  just  kind  of  to  me  they 
 really  just  make  a  statement  because 
 they're  very  upright  and  they'll  search 
 for  a  little  bit  of  that  sun  and  they'll 
 kind  of  turn  whichever  way  that  sun  is. 
 Um  they  they  really  do  like  low  light 
 conditions.  So  this  is  a  perfect  plant. 
 Now  I  will  give  you  an  example.  This  one 
 right  here  and  um  all  the  plants  all  the 
 birds  nest  ferns  that  are  wrapped  down 
 below  came  in  with  nice  root  balls.  But 
 when  I  um  went  to  plant  this  little  guy 
 here  a  year  ago,  I  pulled  him  out  of  the 
 pot  and  apparently  he  was  I  don't  know, 
 maybe  I  pulled  too  much.  I  don't  know 
 what  happened.  I'm  usually  pretty  good 
 at  that  kind  of  stuff,  but  he  the  head 
 popped  off  and  there  was  absolutely  no 
 roots  attached  to  it.  I  gave  it  a  trial 
 and  effort.  I  went  ahead  and  put  him  in 
 thinking  that  more  than  likely  I'd  have 
 to  take  him  out.  He  is  now  solidly 
 rooted  inside.  So  these  guys  are  tough. 
 If  you're  looking  for  a  tough  tough 
 spot,  they  can  dry  out.  They  can  get  a 
 little  bit  too  much  moisture.  They  can 
 be  a  great  bedding  plant.  They  can  live 
 on  top  of  a  tree.  You  can  put  them 
 anywhere  and  they  will  just  kind  of 
 climb  and  really  take  hold,  but  they 
 won't  create  bunch  of  vines  and  a  bunch 
 of  other  pups.  They'll  really  just  open 
 up  and  become  that  cool  fan  that  you're 
 looking  for.  So,  if  you  want  a  tropical 
 bit  of  pop,  bird's  nest  ferns  are 
 phenomenal  for  that.  And  they  come  in  a 
 couple  different  varieties.  This  is  the 
 leaf,  the  long  clean  leaf  that  get  a 
 little  bit  larger,  but  they  have  what 
 they  call  the  lasagna  leaf.  I'm  sure 
 that's  a  common  name  for  it.  I  don't 
 know  what  the  botanical  name  is  for  it, 
 but  it  is  very  cool,  too.  And  it  kind  of 
 has  like  this  lasagna  waves  to  it,  which 
 is  really,  really  cool  feature.  I  have 
 some  calias  down  below.  They  have  done 
 really  well.  They've  kind  of  folded  out. 
 They're  not  super  thick,  but  they  don't 
 get  a  lot  of  light  down  here.  So,  that's 
 probably  why.  They  are  a  plant  that 
 definitely  loves  less  light,  but  um  this 
 may  get  a  little  bit  too  little  light 
 for  them.  I've  got  some  ice  plants  here. 
 I  think  these  are  aglonea  variety,  but 
 I'll  get  Bryce  to  pop  it  on  the  screen 
 because  I  don't  recall.  They  were  kind 
 of  just  a  trial  in  here.  So,  but  they've 
 done  well.  I've  got  them  here  and  I've 
 got  them  here.  So,  Bryce,  please 
 research  that  and  find  out  for  our  folks 
 so  that  way  they  can  incorporate  them 
 into  the  garden  because  that  nice  bit  of 
 dark  green  with  that  yellow  vibrant  leaf 
 is  just  so  stunning.  I  think  it  really 
 pops  out  on  you  and  they've  grown  very 
 little  over  the  year  and  it  kind  of  just 
 become  that  nice  little  fullness  to  a 
 plant  grouping.  Let's  see.  I  love  love 
 love  burmilads  now.  I  put  them  on  trees. 
 I  put  them  on  rocks.  I've  now  put  them 
 in  the  living  wall  and  they've  done 
 well.  This  has  kind  of  grown  by  three. 
 It's  really  gotten  some  like  tripled  in 
 size  right  here  in  this  pot  and  done 
 super  well.  And  then  we've  got  some 
 another  burmilia.  This  is  one  burmilia 
 that's  branched  out  to  multiple  ones. 
 And  I'm  really  hoping  that  it  becomes 
 the  centerpiece  of  this  whole  area 
 around  that  driftwood  and  kind  of 
 continues  to  just  take  off  and  grow  in 
 that  thing.  That  pot  is  fairly  small, 
 you  guys.  So,  to  be  able  to  have  a  plant 
 that  is  going  to  really  outgrow  that  pot 
 and  still  be  super  nice  and  healthy, 
 those  are  hard  things  to  find.  That's 
 why  I  wanted  to  mention  these  plant 
 names  to  you  guys  so  you  can  start  off 
 success  because  I  have  had  some  big-time 
 failures.  I'm  going  to  list  the  failures 
 I've  had  real  quick.  The  failures  I've 
 had,  Calia 
 rattlesnake,  tristar  prayer  plant,  regal 
 rose,  Boston  fern,  sword  fern.  Those  are 
 things  that  I  would  have  loved  to  had 
 worked,  but  they  just  didn't  in  this 
 space.  So,  I  think  that  what  we've  got 
 going  on  right  here  is  really  doing 
 well.  I  almost  forgot.  These 
 polyallicacas,  you  guys,  they  are 
 stunning.  I  have  got  them  here.  And  then 
 I  actually  I  had  a  couple  things  die 
 where  the  prayer  plants  were  and  I  put  a 
 young  one  here  and  it's  been  in  the  pot 
 for  I  would  say  about  four  or  five 
 months  now.  And  I  just  love  the  way  they 
 pop  out.  They're  searching  for  a  little 
 bit  of  that  sun,  a  little  bit  of  that 
 open  space  away  from  the  other  plants. 
 And  I  just  love  this  big  gorgeous  leaf 
 that  they  offer.  Having  some  of  those 
 tucked  into  some  of  your  greens  is  just 
 it's  just  kind  of  the  icing  on  the  top. 
 They  just  do  so  well.  You'll  notice  that 
 I've  got  a  couple  fcus,  heart-shaped 
 variegated  ficas  here.  And  I've  got  them 
 little  just  little  dabs  of  them  here  and 
 here  into  this  grouping.  You  guys  have 
 this  plant.  It's  what  I  do  with  this 
 plant.  And  I  do  the  same  thing  with  my 
 dwarf  alicacas.  I  take  little  clippings 
 off  of  these  and  just  take  the  lower 
 stems  and  kind  of  peel  that  off.  So  I'll 
 just  take  a  clipping  off  of  this,  peel 
 the  lower  stems  off,  and  then  pop  that 
 right  into  that.  And  that  will  reem. 
 that  soil  is  nice  and  moist,  so  it 
 really  takes.  I've  not  had  any 
 casualties.  I  just  pop  them  in  there  and 
 forget  about  it  and  they  take  hold.  So, 
 when  I  need  a  little  bit  of  filler  or  a 
 little  bit  of  brightness  in  the  wall, 
 you  can  just  kind  of  pull  these  out  for 
 some  resource  groupings  and  incorporate 
 them  into  the  wall.  I  do  the  same  thing 
 with  the  dwarf  allocations.  If  I've  got 
 a  dwarf  alicacia  over  there  in  the  yard 
 that  needs  trimming,  I  will  pop  that  bad 
 boy  out,  put  it  right  in  there  with  very 
 little  soil  on  the  root  ball.  Put  it 
 right  into  the  one  of these  pots  and 
 it'll  just  take  hold.  And  I'll  get  Bryce 
 to  show  you  kind  of  where  those  are  in 
 this  space.  But  here  we've  got  one  on 
 the  corner  here  that's  just  growing  in 
 lovely.  You  kind  of  see  how  it's  hooked 
 out.  I  just  put  it  right  on  the  corner 
 because  it  was  kind  of  a  bald  spot.  I 
 got  one  here  and  I've  got  one  on  this 
 corner  and  probably  one  or  two  somewhere 
 else.  But  I  mean,  they  they  really  do 
 take  hold.  So,  we've  got  one  up  top  here 
 and  one  down  below  here.  And  they're 
 just  filling  doing  what  they're  meant  to 
 do  by  filling  these  gaps.  If  you  guys 
 like  ice  plants,  they're  a  fantastic 
 draper.  I  love  using  those.  I've  got  a 
 little  bit  left  over  of  a  devil's 
 backbone  in  here,  which  is  an  nice 
 interesting  plant,  and  they  do  super 
 well.  But  I  had  um  I  had  one  issue  where 
 a  pot  fell  off  one  day  and  I  didn't 
 realize  it.  I  lost  it.  So,  I  just  cut 
 pieces  of  it  off,  put  it  into  another 
 pot,  and  it  rooted  and  it's  doing  super 
 well.  So,  it's  already  coming  back.  So, 
 tough  plants  like  that,  those  are  things 
 that  you  want  to  incorporate  into  your 
 living  wall  because  we  just  don't  have 
 the  time  to  baby  plants.  And  some  of 
 those  ones  that  I  mentioned  were  plants 
 that  just  they  just  constant  every  time 
 I  came  out  they  were  had  maybe  one  leaf 
 on  them  and  the  rest  of  it  turned  brown. 
 So  these  overall  the  ones  that  I 
 mentioned  are  ones  that  are  really 
 really  just  taken  to.  And  this  is  a 
 great  place  to  hang  orchids.  I  I  feel 
 like  it's  a  side  note  there.  I  do  have 
 an  orchid  blooming  a  little  mini  orchid 
 blooming  there.  And  that's  just  attached 
 to  the  post  on  the  side.  You  can 
 obviously  put  some  paleonopsis  over  here 
 and  just  kind  of  layer  them  into  these 
 open  areas.  just  kind  of  stick  them  in 
 here  and  let  them  kind  of  fold  out.  I 
 believe  that's  what  I'm  going  to  do  for 
 the  wedding.  So  you  guys,  I  I'll  ask 
 Bryce  to  get  a  picture  of  what  that  look 
 like  when  I'm  done.  But  just  a  little  of 
 these  key  areas  just  for  those  special 
 occasions  because  as  we  know,  orchids 
 are  fabulous  when  they're  blooming,  but 
 those  months  that  they're  not,  then  you 
 know,  you  need  the  rest  of  these  plants 
 to  kind  of  assist.  So  that  pretty  much 
 wraps  it  up  for  our  living  wall.  I  hope 
 you  guys  got  tons  of  information  about 
 it  and  I  hope  that  this  is  something 
 that  you  try  for  your  own  space  because 
 I  call  it  a  success.  As  you  know,  I'm 
 always  on  in  search  for  a  better  way  to 
 do  things.  So,  if  you  guys  have  had 
 success  in  your  own  living  wall  projects 
 and  you  you've  used  different  products, 
 there's  so  many  out  there  on  the  market 
 and  you  love  the  way  it  turned  out,  then 
 please  list  that  in  the  comments  down 
 below.  Not  just  for  me  to  research,  but 
 also  for  other  gardeners  that  are  out 
 there  to  look  into  because,  you  know,  we 
 all  want  a  tropical  garden  and  we  want 
 it  about  as  easy  as  you  can  get  it.  So, 
 if  you  guys  enjoyed  this  video  tour, 
 then  check  out  how  this  living  wall 
 started,  where  um  what  it  looked  like  a 
 year,  a  little  over  a  year  ago,  and  uh 
 hopefully  it  encourages  you  even  more  to 
 start  your  own  project.  Don't  forget  to 
 like  and  subscribe,  and  I  will  see  you 
 in  the  very  next  video.  Take  care.

---

 Well,  hello  gardeners.  Welcome  back.  So, 
 I  hope  you  are  ready  for  another  garden 
 tour.  We  are  in  Port  St.  Lucy,  Florida 
 today  and  we're  going  to  walk  through 
 this  lovely  yet  small,  very  compact 
 backyard  tropical  oasis.  And  I'm  going 
 to  say  oasis  because  that's  exactly  what 
 it  is.  Is  it  a  teenytiny  footprint  of 
 about  15  foot  deep?  Yes.  But  I  really  do 
 think  that  these  clients  maximized  every 
 bit  of  space.  I  mean,  that  was  the  whole 
 conversation  when  we  met.  It  was  like, 
 we  don't  want  grass.  We  just  want  to  sit 
 out  here  on  our  backyard  patio  and  enjoy 
 the  backyard  space  and  enjoy  that 
 tropical  environment  and  not  look  at  all 
 the  houses  across  the  street.  So,  if 
 that  is  you  guys,  if  you  guys  are  in  a 
 community  and  you're  looking  to  maybe 
 take  out  most  of  the  grass  or  all  of  the 
 grass  and  create  a  tropical  garden  to 
 kind  of  infold  that  back  patio,  then 
 stick  around  because  this  video  is  going 
 to  be  just  for  you.  And  towards  the  end 
 of  this  video,  we're  going  to  do  that 
 thing  that  you  guys  absolutely  commented 
 about.  Thank  you  so  much  for  all  your 
 comments.  that  overhead  view  line  of 
 what  this  uh  particular  garden  looks 
 like  so  you  guys  can  see  it  in  full 
 frame.  So  it'll  be  this  layout  was 
 showing  the  plants  and  trees  as  we  talk 
 about  them.  So  stay  tuned  towards  the 
 end  of  the  video  because  you're  going  to 
 see  that  and  that  way  you  can  screenshot 
 that  bad  boy  and  recreate  that  in  your 
 yard.  So  it  seemed  to  be  very  very  very 
 helpful  for  so  many  people.  So  we  are 
 going  to  try  to  do  that  as  often  as  we 
 can.  But  so  let's  jump  right  into  this. 
 Oh  but  before  we  do  that  be  sure  to  like 
 and  subscribe.  So,  we  do  not  do  any 
 YouTube  marketing.  We  do  not  do  any  paid 
 advertisements.  So,  there  is  a  good 
 chance  that  if  you  are  not  subscribed 
 and  did  not  hit  that  notification  bell, 
 you  will  not  be  seeing  my  normal  content 
 every  single  weekend  uh  because  the 
 algorithm  doesn't  know  who  I  am.  So,  if 
 you  want  to  see  more  of  these  videos, 
 then  please  hit  that  notification  bell, 
 subscribe,  like,  do  all  the  fun  things, 
 share  the  love,  and  you  will  see  us 
 every  single  weekend.  But  now,  let's  get 
 started.  Let's  jump  right  into  this 
 tour.  All right,  you  guys.  So,  I  think  I 
 mentioned  to  you  that  it's  a  very  small 
 space.  It's  a  very  narrow  space.  I'm 
 going  to  get  Bryce  to  slide  in  the 
 before  pictures  of  what  it  looked  like, 
 which  was  just  pretty  much  a  rectangular 
 section  of  grass.  So,  it  goes  from  the 
 screen  room  out  15t  and  then  the  rest  of 
 it  is  easement  going  to  the  the  the 
 development  behind  here.  But,  let's  just 
 so  you  guys  can  see  that.  Let's  hop 
 right  over  there  so  you  can  get  a  better 
 look  yourself.  So,  if  this  backyard 
 looks  familiar  to  you  guys,  it's  this 
 all  section  here  from  one  development, 
 one  neighbor  to  another.  Um,  this  is  a 
 lot  of  the  a  lot  of  the  type  of  projects 
 that  we  do.  Um,  and  I  love  them  because 
 whether  you're  building  a  big  oasis  or 
 you're  building  a  small  one,  it  is  still 
 a  backyard  oasis.  So,  I  think  you're 
 going  to  agree,  especially  when  we  come 
 back  in  six  months  to  a  year  and  really 
 see  this  backyard  unfold.  is  going  to 
 just  be  tropical,  full,  and  exactly  what 
 I  think  the  clients  were  looking  for. 
 Um,  but  just  kind  of  gives  you  a  point 
 of  reference  of  what  this  backyard  space 
 is  going  to  look  like  compared  to,  you 
 know,  your  single  stretch  of  grass  um, 
 in  the  neighboring  backyards.  All right, 
 so  Bryce  is  standing  in  the  garden  right 
 now  so  that  way  you  guys  can  see  behind 
 us.  Um,  this  is  a  big  panoramic  screen 
 with  a  small  back  patio.  Now,  this  patio 
 and  these  doors  all  join  that  front  door 
 entrance.  So,  you  right  from  the  front 
 door,  you  see  kind  of  all  of  this  space. 
 So,  I  knew  that  it  was  really,  really 
 important  to  bring  in  a  pop  of  color,  a 
 pop  of  interest  right  off  the  bat 
 because,  as  you  guys  know,  when  you  can 
 see  something  interesting  outside, 
 nothing  draws  you  out  more  than  that. 
 So,  I  always  I'm  looking  for  those 
 viewpoints.  Wherever  it  is  a  good 
 seating  section  is,  I'm  wanting 
 something  that's  going  to  have  kind  of 
 jump  out  and  grab  you  and  say,  "Hey, 
 come  take  a  peek  out  here."  So,  I  think 
 that  this  totally  did  that.  My  clients 
 are  going  to  live  outside.  They're  super 
 excited  about  this.  This  patio  is  a 
 perfect  place  for  them  to  relax,  enjoy 
 their  retirement,  and,  you  know,  be 
 enveloped  in  the  gardens.  All right,  so 
 now  I'm  just  stepping  right  off  of  the 
 stepping  pad  here  off  of  the  pavers 
 coming  out  the  screen  door.  And  I  like 
 the  idea  of  a  clean  space  right  off  of 
 the  foundation  of  the  house.  And  you  can 
 absolutely  put  mulch  in  there.  It's  not 
 a  problem.  But  I  really  do  like  the  idea 
 of  stone  kind  of  giving  you  a  border. 
 That  way  the  plants  and  trees  are  not  up 
 close  to  the  screen  room.  So  we  do  have 
 a  nice  gray  granite  border  packs  down 
 really  well.  This  project  I  guess  I 
 should  have  mentioned  is  only  been  done. 
 It's  about  a  week  a  little  over  a  week 
 now  where  so  it's  not  even  established 
 yet.  But  I  wanted  to  get  in  here  early. 
 It  seems  to  really  help  you  guys  when 
 you  see  the  plants  from  the  trees  really 
 really  new.  So  when  you're  replicating 
 this  it  kind  of  gives  you  a  good  idea  of 
 placement.  But  back  to  the  rock.  So  this 
 is  nice  and  tidy.  kind  of  keeps 
 everything,  all  the  mess  away  from  the 
 screen,  all  the  dust.  And  then  also  when 
 you  can  take  a  little  space  between 
 where  you're  sitting  to  where  the  rear 
 tier  is,  all  the  better.  Push  that 
 landscape  back  as  far  as  you  can.  So 
 that  way  it  goes,  you  have  all  of  that 
 open  light  and  then  your  landscaping  is 
 kind  of  surrounded,  you  know,  to  the 
 edges  and  to  the  rear  of  you.  So  it  kind 
 of  that's  kind  of  my  go-to  when  I  can. 
 And  even  in  a  small  narrow  space  like 
 this,  that's  what  I  opted  to  do.  So,  so 
 we're  going  to  start  with  the  big  boy  in 
 place  here.  Right  here,  we  have  a  triple 
 foxtail  palm.  Now,  those  of  you  guys  who 
 are  gardeners  know  that  this  is  a  common 
 thing.  The  outside  limbs  during 
 transport  get  tied  up.  So,  if  they  go 
 dry  or  brown  off  the  first  couple  weeks, 
 that's  completely  normal.  They'll  get 
 clipped  and  the  new  ones  will  pop  in  in 
 no  time.  But,  uh,  these  triple  foxtail 
 palms  are  perfect  anchors,  perfect 
 centerpieces.  They  really  open  up  and 
 become  just  a  gorgeous,  gorgeous  feature 
 in  the  garden.  This  tree  is  going  to 
 offer  so  much  shade  in  the  future  to 
 this  corner  of  the  house.  So,  I  cannot 
 wait  to  really  see  it  get  established. 
 It  was  the  biggest  tree  we  could  put  in 
 with  our  little  loader  back  here.  So,  it 
 was  a  job  and  it  was  not  easy,  but  I 
 knew  my  clients  wanted  some  impact  and 
 impact  right  away.  So,  this  uh  triple 
 foxtail  is  always  a  way  to  go.  It  can 
 handle  full  sun  conditions  of  course, 
 but  it  does  a  great  job  of  changing  the 
 microclimate  for  all  the  plants  and 
 trees  underneath  of  it  as  it  continues 
 to  mature.  So,  um  you'll  notice  that 
 there  is  a  line  of  kucia  here.  You  can 
 see  how  close  the  fence  is  to  the  screen 
 room  is  here.  This  amount  of  5  foot  of 
 space  is  not  much  to  work  with.  So,  we 
 kind  of  going  to  create  a  green  wall 
 space.  They  don't  have  any  grass,  so  we 
 don't  have  to  leave  room  for  a  mower  to 
 get  through.  And  that's  exactly  what 
 what  they  want  to  do.  They  want  to  allow 
 this  to  become  a  kousia  of  6  foot  by  4 
 foot  wide  and  really  fill  this  space  up 
 and  it  will  do  that.  If  any  of  you  guys 
 know  what  kousia  do,  they  will  do  that. 
 And  this  is  what  I  mean  about  small 
 spaces.  You  can  make  big  impacts  with 
 few  plants.  We  have  got  three  of  these 
 Rojo  red  Jacob  coat  copper  leaf.  Now, 
 these  guys  back  here,  they're  not  the 
 Louisiana  red  that  get  really  really 
 tall  real  fast,  but  they  do  stay  a 
 little  chunkier  and  a  little  fuller,  but 
 still  offer  that  bright  red  color. 
 They're  fabulous  for  a  just  a  a 
 multitude  of  a  multitude  of  coloring 
 through  this  leaf.  This  will  become 
 brighter  and  brighter  as  it  gets  bigger, 
 and  the  leaf  will  get  larger  than  the 
 size  of  my  hand.  These  three  plants  here 
 will  connect  to  one  plant.  So,  this  will 
 become  one  solid  group.  That's  why  I  put 
 them  in  triangle  of  formations  because 
 their  natural  um  growth  habit  is  to 
 reach  out  and  connect  with  its 
 neighboring  plant.  So  once  it  does  that, 
 it  becomes  a  real  strong  unit.  So  these 
 three  here  will  be  a  nice  five,  even  six 
 foot  barrier  right  behind  this  foxtail 
 palm.  Especially  as  this  foxtail  palm 
 continues  to  grow,  they  will  not  lose 
 that  coverage  because  these  little  guys 
 will  create  that  great  great  bit  of 
 coverage  right  in  this  corner  where  it 
 needs  to  right  to  the  edge  of  this  uh 
 this  fence  here.  So,  they  make  a 
 fantastic  bright  red  screen.  They  love 
 full  sun.  They  cannot  do  filtered  light 
 very  well  um  or  shade.  Um  they  really 
 need  about  6  hours  minimum  of  sun.  So, 
 they're  the  perfect  Florida  plant.  nice 
 big  waxy  leaf,  very  very  tropical.  Down 
 below  are  I  know  you  guys  know  these 
 plants  by  now  are  my  blaze  copper  leaf. 
 I  use  them  and  and  that  goes  for  a  lot 
 of the  plants  that  you're  going  to  see 
 here.  I  use  these  guys  over  and  over 
 again  in  different  applications  because 
 they're  tried  true  tough  flora  plants. 
 We're  in  we're  in  a  tough  environment. 
 We  have  those  heavy  rains.  We  have  tons 
 of  wind  as  you  can  see.  We  have  a  lot  of 
 conditions.  We  have  really  big  time  pest 
 issues.  So  when  you  can  create  a  a 
 tropical  planting  with  plants  that  will 
 survive  in  that  environment  and  not 
 everybody  loves  natives  that  of  my 
 clients.  So  I  have  to  find  plants  and 
 trees  that  are  going  to  work.  So  you'll 
 notice  I'll  use  the  same  150  200  plants 
 and  trees  over  and  over  again  just  what 
 appeals  to  the  client  and  what  works  in 
 the  space  that  for  that  particular 
 location  because  it  works.  And  when  I 
 walk  away  for  the  day  after  the 
 landscaping  is  done  and  six  years,  10 
 years  later,  I  know  that  I'm  leaving  a 
 project  that's  going  to  work  from  now 
 and  into  the  future.  So  that's  why  you 
 see  a  lot  of these  plants  and  trees  and 
 that's  why  I  rave  about  some  of  these 
 combinations  because  I  get  to  see  them 
 over  time  doing  this  for  over  25  years. 
 I  can  go  back  and  see  how  these 
 landscapings  are  just  flourishing 
 because  I  do  phase  after  phase  for  some 
 of these  clients  who  some  of  them  become 
 like  friends  and  family  to  me.  So,  so  I 
 know  I've  heard  comments  about,  you 
 know,  you  use  a  lot  of  the  same  plants. 
 It  is  true.  I  use  a  lot  of  the  same 
 plants  and  there  is  very  good  reason  for 
 it.  I  make  no  apologies  for  it.  So,  this 
 right 
 here,  so  this  right  here  are  my  blaze 
 copper  leaf  because  why?  Because  they're 
 tough  and  they're  durable  and  they  give 
 you  a  lot  of  color  for  a  a  big  impact 
 for  a  space.  So,  now  these  guys  are 
 going  to  go  tall  and  narrow  while  these 
 guys  come  up  and  poof  out.  So  they  kind 
 of  come  up  and  fold  out  like  this.  And 
 you'll  see  that  I  do  not  have  a  big 
 collection  of  them.  I've  got  five  total 
 in  here  that  are  can  consume  this  whole 
 corner.  Now  are  they  it's  going  to  take 
 them  about  a  good  year  to  do  that,  but 
 by  that  point  these  two  trees  next  to 
 them  will  be  well  and  established  and 
 they're  going  to  have  some  height  to 
 them.  So  that  way  we  need  something  to 
 come  up  to  take  that  space.  So,  these 
 guys  are  going  to  pop  up  and  poof  out  as 
 understory  plantings  in  that  space  when 
 these  two  guys  start  to  really  pick  up 
 the  pace  because,  as  you  guys  know, 
 foxtail  palms  will  grow  about  anywhere 
 from  two  to  four  foot  a  year  depending 
 on  how  good  soil  and  um  how  much 
 watering  you  do.  And  you  can  get  4  foot 
 a  year  from  a  um  fishtail  palm.  So, 
 those  of  you  guys  who  are  doing  this 
 yourself,  don't  feel  like  you  have  to 
 come  in  with  giant  trees.  just  get  your 
 trees  started,  get  them  established,  and 
 then  maybe  take  your  next  step  in  the 
 phase  because  at  Florida  growth  rate,  it 
 doesn't  all  have  to  be  done  at 
 once  down  below  because  we  don't  have  a 
 lot  of  room  here  and  I  still  wanted  a 
 change  of  texture  from  this  to  this.  So, 
 we  have  some  foxtail  ferns  to  give  us  a 
 bright  coloration  of  green.  It's  going 
 to  fill  this  space  up.  All  of  these 
 plants,  this  these  foxtail  ferns  are 
 going  to  come  right  over  into  the  edge 
 of  this  um  this  rock  to  really  soften 
 the  borderline  of  the  rock.  And  you'll 
 notice  all  of  my  plants,  I  like  them 
 just  to  creep  over  right  over  that  edge 
 because  I  do  like  a  defined  edge,  but  I 
 also  like  the  plants  to  look  like 
 they're  folding  over  top  of  this  space 
 to  give  it  more  of  that  natural  look.  Um 
 then  right  here  again,  because  we  don't 
 have  a  lot  of  room  to  work  with,  we've 
 got  golden  dues  or  gold  mounds.  A  little 
 chunk  grouping  of  those.  and  then  ruby 
 reds.  I  just  love  how  they're  dappled  in 
 here  as  like  a  little  curved  fashion. 
 They're  really  going  to  grow  well 
 together  to  accompany  these  variegated 
 agave.  Now,  normally  you  guys  know  I 
 love  false  agave.  I  use  them  all  the 
 time,  but  these  variegated  agave  are 
 going  to  be  the  perfect  sphere  like  they 
 kind  of  create  a  nice  round  ball  for 
 this  spot.  So,  they're  going  to  almost 
 touch  when  they're  fully  grown,  but 
 they're  only  going  to  grow  to  about  this 
 height.  So  that's  what's  perfect  about 
 these  versus  a  fals  agave  which  is  going 
 to  get  much  much  taller  and  just  a 
 little  too  wide  for  this  spot.  I  didn't 
 want  I  don't  you  know  I  want  I  want  the 
 plants  and  trees  to  come  into  the 
 walkway  a  little  bit  but  not  stab  you 
 while  they're  doing  that.  So  these  guys 
 are  not  going  to  do  that  but  the  falsave 
 would  over  time.  So  this  is  a  good  fit 
 for  these.  So  to  the  back  we  have  these 
 dwarf  alicacas.  I  love  these  guys.  As 
 you  can  see  they're  going  to  fill  in 
 this  whole  spot.  I  absolutely  love  love 
 love  this  collection  when  it  really 
 starts  to  come  in.  Now,  I  will  tell  you, 
 I  did  something  in  this  more  of  a  rushed 
 pattern  in  this  particular  um  spot. 
 Normally,  I  would  put  these  in  first, 
 let  them  establish  over  a  year  or  two, 
 and  then  put  something  big  and  leafy 
 like  this  because  it's  going  to  help  not 
 only  give  a  little  bit  more  shade  to  the 
 spot,  but  it's  also  going  to  give  not 
 going  to  kind  of  come  up  too  high  in 
 front  of  these  pigmentate  palms.  But  my 
 clients,  they're  gardeners.  They're 
 they're  absolutely  they're  out  in  their 
 garden.  I've  seen  their  previous  homes. 
 They're  just  going  to  keep  this 
 stunning.  I  just  know  it.  So,  we're  not 
 leaving  a  bunch  of  open  gaps.  And  they 
 did  love  the  look  of  dwarf  alicacas.  I 
 think  that  we're  going  to  be  just  fine 
 as  these  guys  as  we  trim  these  fronds 
 up,  allowing  some  of  those  undercarriage 
 legs  to  show  so  that  the  that  way  these 
 two  don't  compete  with  each  other.  I 
 hope  that  makes  sense.  So,  but  for  those 
 of  you  guys  who  have  time,  it's  your 
 yard,  you're  doing  it  yourself,  you 
 might  want  to  get  these  in  the  ground 
 for  about  a  year,  get  them  established, 
 get  them  more  upright,  so  that  way 
 they're  not  in  any  way  competing  with 
 the  plant  in  front  of  them.  And  when 
 you're  doing  a  whole  landscape  job,  it 
 can  be  a  little  bit  different.  So,  to 
 the  front,  we  again,  we're  going  really, 
 really  nice  and  tidy.  We've  got  the  blew 
 my  minds  right  along  the  the  base  of  the 
 triangle  palm.  How  did  I  forget  about 
 the  triangle  palm?  So,  we  have  a 
 triangle  fan  palm  as  the  centerpiece. 
 This  is  what  you  see  prominently  from 
 the  front  doorway.  It  is  going  to  kind 
 of  create  that  fanlike  space.  Now,  she 
 is  very  young.  We  wanted  definitely  to 
 have  layers  out  here.  So,  she  is 
 definitely  going  to  be  the  centerpiece, 
 the  smaller  of  all  the  layers.  But  what 
 your  eye  goes  to,  I  would  say  first  when 
 you're  looking  from  inside  out.  I  love 
 how  she's  going  to  really  create  that 
 fan  grouping  right  here.  She  has  the 
 tail  that's  going  to  fill  out  the  back 
 side  of  this.  So,  it's  going  to  just  be 
 an  allaround  overall  beautiful 
 triangular  shape  to  to  the  garden.  As 
 she  gets  bigger,  she  has  a  little  bit 
 more  of  that  silver  tone  and  that's  just 
 going  to  draw  your  eye  amongst  all  the 
 green  fronds.  So,  triangle  fan  palms. 
 She's  about  9  foot  tall,  but  as  you  guys 
 know,  Florida  tree,  she  will  continue  to 
 grow.  Um,  and  they  have  that  really  cool 
 Madagascar  fur  that's  right  up  the  other 
 front  that  I  just  think  is  so  charming. 
 I'll  get  Bryce  to  do  a  closeup  of  that. 
 So  you  you'll  notice  that  these  piggyate 
 palms.  Now  I  wish  we  had  a  little  bit 
 more  room  to  work  with,  but  these  guys 
 in  time  they're  going  to  be  the  perfect 
 specimens  for  this  area.  You  guys  know 
 pygmy  8  palms  mature  out  to  around  10  to 
 12t.  So  um  they're  going  to  really  chunk 
 out  and  really  kind  of  give  you  that  big 
 canopy  head  exactly  where  my  clients 
 want  it,  which  is  where  the  roof  lines 
 of  this  back  development  is.  We  have 
 quite  a  bit  of  staring  into  back  screen 
 rooms  from  one  screen  room  to  another. 
 So  they  really  wanted  to  soften  it.  They 
 wanted  to  when  they're  sitting  here, 
 they're  just  enjoying  the  tropical 
 layers  of  palms  and  plants  and  trees 
 unfolding  onto  each  other  and  not 
 looking  at  the  neighbor  screen  room 
 behind  them.  So,  we  brought  those  in  as 
 the  backdrop,  let  them  grow  in,  bring 
 the  big  trees  in,  and  really  let  them 
 get  some  size  and  some  establishment, 
 and  then  you're  going  to  have  an 
 entirely  well  done  garden  in  no  time. 
 So,  it's  I  can't  I  cannot  wait  to  see  it 
 come  together.  You'll  notice  I  have  two 
 single  King  Alexanders.  They  are 
 fabulous  to  work  with.  They  do  get  tall. 
 They  will  get  all  the  way  up  into  the  25 
 27  foot  range.  So,  they  will  continue  to 
 get  tall,  but  they  have  this  gorgeous 
 trunk  with  these  beautiful  rings  as  they 
 start  to  mature.  Really  nice  fronds.  And 
 if  you're  talking  about  like  a  like  an 
 umbrella  out  into  a  resort,  they  have 
 that  kind  of  look  where  it's  nice  and 
 slender  and  then  that  canopy  is  real 
 dynamic  at  the  edge.  So  they're  a  little 
 bit  of  of  more  dynamic  look  than  the 
 foxtail  palms  where  the  foxtails  are 
 soft  and  bushy  and  you  know  just  have 
 more  of  a  lush  soft  garden  or  soft 
 canopy  where  these  guys  are  more 
 vibrant,  more  direct  and  so  that  look 
 together  as  they  mature  is  just  so 
 stunning.  Especially  when  they're  this 
 close  to  each  other,  it's  going  to 
 really  kind  of  give  a  good  contrast  of 
 leaf  so  that  way  everything  does  feel 
 like  you're  getting  a  lot  of  different 
 palm  feels  in  one  island  bed.  So  down 
 below  we  have  the  Java  white  copper 
 release  and  they're  going  to  do  this 
 same  thing.  This  is  my  client's  window 
 that  I'm  facing.  It's  just  right 
 adjacent  to  me.  And  really  they  want  to 
 see  some  color  down  here.  So  these  are 
 going  to  open  up  and  really  create  that 
 beautiful  lime  green  and  yellowish  tone 
 to  the  leaf.  And  the  ones  that  are  going 
 to  be  more  in  the  shade  will  take  on 
 more  of  that  white  and  green  leaf  tone. 
 So  it's  they're  just  going  to  really 
 fill  in  and  kind  of  really  create  some 
 real  dense  coverage.  Right  here  to  the 
 back  are  of  course  very  newly  planted  uh 
 Brazilian  red  cloaks.  This  is  kind  of 
 what  they  look  like  when  they're  newly 
 planted.  I  I  love  them,  but  they  can  get 
 they  can  go  through  their  shock  as  as 
 big  leafed  plants  tend  to  do.  They  will 
 handle  it  like  a  champ.  I  should  say 
 like  queens  because  they're  phenomenal 
 in  the  garden.  And  this  is  one  of  those 
 backdrops  that  I  was  mentioning  that 
 will  forever  be  a  backdrop.  So  as  these 
 grow  in,  they'll  be  8  n  10  foot  tall  as 
 this  backdrop.  So  you'll  have  this 
 variegated  leaf  down  below  with  this 
 gorgeous  bloom  of  color  of  just  hitting 
 you  from  all  over  as  your  backdrop.  So 
 they're  going  to  be  a  gorgeous  chunk. 
 And  you  know,  you  could  technically  take 
 these  and  run  them  all  along  the  back 
 and  create  your  bed  that  way.  But 
 popping  them  into  corner  or  key  areas  or 
 centerpiece  areas  just  I  don't know.  Oh, 
 it's  just  it  really  does  feel  like  a 
 tropical  jungle  when  you  do  that  because 
 you  have  different  these  different  leaf 
 fronds  and  then  you've  got  these  guys 
 popping  up  with  a  whole  different  look 
 and  that  mesh  that  contrast  together 
 just  screams  I'm  in  the  islands  but  I'm 
 not  in  the  islands.  So,  so  over  here  we 
 finished  it  off  with  pygmy  date  palms 
 and  this  is  pretty  much  just  to  kind  of 
 soften  this  fence  line  that's  here.  We 
 want  them  to  feel  nestled.  So,  both 
 sides  are  going  to  be  a  dense  bit  of 
 coverage.  We  have  the  Kucia  on  the  one 
 side,  the  pygmies  that  are  going  to  be 
 10  to  12  foot  on  this  side.  And  it  kind 
 of  just  takes  care  of  all  those  roof 
 lines.  When  these  guys  get  that  size  to 
 them,  they're  going  to  really,  really, 
 really  get  to  see  that  they're  kind  of 
 in  an  an  environment  by  themselves.  I 
 had  a  um  a  quick  story.  I  had  a  somebody 
 come  over  to  buy  something  from 
 Marketplace  this  past  weekend  and  it  was 
 the  best  compliment  ever.  We  were 
 looking  at  my  front  yard  and  she  was 
 talking  about  how  she  was  a  gardener  up 
 north  and  she  loved  plants  and  trees  and 
 I  was  like,  "Okay,  so  if  you  love  them 
 in  the  front,  check  out  my  back.  It's 
 like  infolded  with  like  a  lot  more."  So, 
 we  walk  back  there  and  as  soon  as  we 
 walk  around  the  corner,  she  is  like,  "Oh 
 my  goodness."  She  goes,  "I  mean,  your 
 front  yard  was  nice,  but  it  felt  like  I 
 was  still  in  a  neighborhood."  I  walk  to 
 the  backyard  and  it's  like  suburbia  be 
 gone.  It  was  instantly  I  feel  like  I'm 
 at  some  kind  of,  you  know,  retreat 
 somewhere  in  a  jungle  somewhere.  and  she 
 goes,  "It  just  doesn't  feel  like  I  have 
 homes  around  me."  And  I  to  me  that  was 
 one  of the  best  compliments  from  another 
 gardener  because  that's  exactly  what  I 
 wanted  back  there.  I  know  that  we  all 
 have  to  live  in  town  and,  you  know,  we 
 have  to,  you  know,  have  neighbors  so 
 close  by  and  that's  just  part  of  the  joy 
 of  living  in  Florida.  But  when  you  can 
 take  and  and  have  that  all  those 
 benefits  without  the  negative  of  having 
 to  be,  you  know,  so  on  top  of  each 
 other,  then  I  think  that  was  just  a 
 true,  you  know,  true  compliment  of 
 success.  And  so  I  want  to  share  that 
 with  you  guys  because  I  bet  as  you're 
 gardening,  you  kind  of  run  across  things 
 like  that.  And  I,  you  know,  it  hit  home 
 with  me.  I  thought  it  might  hit  home 
 with  you,  too.  That  is  pretty  much  the 
 end  of  the  plant  and  tree  material.  It 
 was  pretty  much  gives  you  the  name  and 
 the  callouts  for  everything  that's  here. 
 The  only  thing  I  didn't  address  was  the 
 the  irrigation  systems.  You  can  see  that 
 they  the  homeowner  has  an  irrigation 
 system  through  the  community,  but 
 because  they  wanted  to  make  sure  that 
 they  didn't  just  have  to  stick  to  the 
 reclaimed  water  that's  available  to  the 
 community,  he  went  ahead  and  put  in 
 these  small  little  irrigation  um  heads, 
 these  misters  that  he  can  control  right 
 off  his  spot  that  can  get  these  plants 
 and  trees  established  from  the  get-go. 
 So,  I  think  that's  ideal.  That  way,  he 
 does  not  have  to  hand  water  it.  He  can 
 see  the  irrigation  coming  on.  All  this 
 is  is  a  tube  that  runs  like  an  entire 
 oval  around  the  bed.  The  tube  goes  from 
 the  front,  curves  around  the  backside, 
 and  the  tube  itself  is  solid.  So,  all  he 
 had  to  do  was  pop  in  these  those  little 
 heads  that  you're  seeing  there  um  into 
 that  tube  just  where  he  needs  it.  And 
 that  was  done  after  the  plants  were  in. 
 It  was  so  easy  to  be  able  to  make  sure 
 that  coverage  got  put  where  it  need  to 
 get  put  and  then  not  where  it  didn't 
 need  it.  So,  I  I'm  an  advocate  for  that. 
 I  love  that  idea  because  a  lot  of  us 
 have  to  handwater  until  things  get 
 established  when  you're  with  a  community 
 and  you're  only  on  their  time  clock.  So, 
 I  will  make  sure  to  put  that  link  in  the 
 description  down  below.  So,  if  you  guys 
 are  thinking  about  landscaping  or 
 getting  ready  to  have  a  landscaper  come 
 out  and  do  your  work,  get  that  put  in 
 because  it  is  something  that  a  homeowner 
 can  easily  do  without  any  experience. 
 It's  just  running  a  line  to  the  back, 
 popping  a  hole  in,  and  then  I  guess  the 
 most  the  most  difficult  part  of  the 
 whole  thing  is  the  little  timer  that 
 goes  on.  But  it's  just  a  battery 
 operated  timer  that  you  set  to  come  on 
 every  single  day,  so  you  don't  have  to 
 press  that  start  button  yourself.  But 
 other  than  that,  it  is  just  so  super 
 easy.  Okay,  so  we  talked  about  the 
 plants,  we  talked  about  the  irrigation. 
 Now,  let's  get  to  the  good  stuff.  Let's 
 break  this  down  so  you  guys  can  see  an 
 overhead  view.  Bryce  is  going  to  do  his 
 magic  for  you  guys  and  kind  of  share 
 with  you  what  we're  looking  at  treewise 
 in  this  bed.  All right,  you  guys.  So,  we 
 have  got  Kucia,  largely  Kucias.  We've 
 got  a  nice  row  of  those  planted  three 
 foot  on  center.  We've  got  four  of  those 
 that  are  going  to  cover  that  entire 
 space,  give  them  the  perfect  green  wall. 
 That's  where  we  started  in  this  bed. 
 Then  on  each  corner,  we  have  foxtail 
 palms.  So,  we  have  a  foxtail  palm  triple 
 here,  and  we  have  a  double  foxtail  palm 
 on  that  side  over  there.  Now,  for  our 
 backing  material,  the  things  that's 
 going  to  create  that  wall  for  us,  that 
 long-term  version  of  the  wall,  we  have 
 two  fishtail  palms.  We  kind  of  have  them 
 in  two  key  areas,  um,  they're  not 
 symmetrical,  but  the  goal  for  those  were 
 to  kind  of  camouflage  some  some  houses 
 in  the  back,  some  viewpoints  that  they 
 needed  from  inside  to  be  camouflaged.  So 
 we  have  two  fishtail  palms  that  are 
 going  to  widen  out  to  8  foot  wide  and 
 get  tall  tall  tall tall  as  they  really 
 grow  in  and  fill  that  back.  So  they'll 
 be  giant  columns  8  foot  wide  in  this 
 back  section.  Then  we  have  two  pygmy 
 eight  palms  to  the  back  here  that  once 
 this  tree  gets  big,  they're  going  to 
 come  come  together  and  create  a  wall  for 
 themselves.  This  is  a  triangle  fan  palm 
 which  is  our  centerpiece  tree.  That's 
 the  tree  that  you  kind  of  want  it.  You 
 want  it  to  be  different  than  any  other 
 tree  if  at  all  possible  because  it's 
 supposed  to  draw  your  eye  to  the  middle 
 even  if  it's  not  going  to  be  in  the 
 middle.  Because  in  this  particular  spot, 
 it  wasn't  in  the  middle.  This  is  offset 
 because  of  the  the  viewpoint  I  was  going 
 for  was  the  clients,  not  centered  on  the 
 house.  So,  whatever  your  your 
 centerpiece  is,  it  should  be  different. 
 Even  if  it's  not  your  centerpiece,  it's 
 it's  your  focal  point.  I  hope  that  makes 
 sense.  Um,  so  this  is  your  centerpiece 
 tree.  And  then  flanking  the  centerpiece 
 tree  just  so  we  frame  it  itself  are  two 
 single  alexanders.  There  are  the  frame 
 for  this  tree  there  to  give  us  a 
 different  row  of  layers  for  your  palms. 
 Your  foxtails  are  going  to  be  taller 
 than  your  than  your  alexanders.  Your 
 centerpiece  tree  will  eventually  get 
 tall  in  the  middle  but  not  as  tall  as 
 your  as  your  um  king  Alexanders.  And 
 your  pygmies  will  never  get  that  tall. 
 They'll  never  compete  with  that.  So 
 they'll  be  your  wall.  Now  for  the  fun 
 stuff,  the  smaller  plant  material.  To 
 the  back,  we  have  the  Jacob's  coat 
 copper  leaf  as  a  group.  That's  going  to 
 get  nice  and  six  foot  tall  in  that 
 backdrop.  We  have  blaze  copper  leaf  on 
 this  side  and  the  opposite  side.  So, 
 we've  got  five  here  and  I  think  we've 
 got  four  or  five  over  there  on  that 
 corner  there.  So,  we've  got  blaze  copper 
 leaf  on  each  end.  Then  through  the 
 middle  kind  of  in  a  nice  curved  fashion, 
 um  we  have  the  dwarf  alicacas.  They're 
 going to  be  a  nice  clustering  together 
 around  the  centerpiece  tree  to  kind  of 
 soften  that  look.  Each  corner  got  a 
 little  dash  of  golden  dew.  So,  we've  got 
 three  golden  dues  here  and  we've  got 
 four  golden  dues  in  this  area  because  it 
 has  a  little  bit  more  room.  So,  just  a 
 little  bit  of  brightness  because  the 
 centerpiece  plant  grouping  is  a  dark 
 grouping.  It  is  the  ruby  reds.  So, 
 they're  going  to  be  nice  and  deep  purple 
 to  really  balance  out  that  yellow  on  the 
 corners.  And  then  to  the  backside  is 
 just  a  little  dollop  of  the  blue  my 
 minds  just  to  give  us  a  little  touch  of 
 a  nice  low  color.  Now  this  is  the  area 
 where  my  client  sits.  So  you  guys  can 
 really  see  those  low  plantings  right 
 next  to  the  walkway  are  going  to  stay 
 nice  and  compact  and  and  really  really 
 paired  back  to  really  give  that  wild 
 jungle  to  the  back  a  little  bit  of  a 
 clean  line  look  allowing  the  backdrop  to 
 be  a  little  wild  and  crazy.  It's  great 
 to  mix  those  two  styles  because  it 
 really  really  kind  of  brings  the  whole 
 look  together  once  you  can  do  that.  It's 
 kind  of  mixing  a  little  old  with 
 new.  Um,  and  then  we  finished  it  off 
 because  we  have  a  little  bit  more  room 
 on  this  side  since  it's  not  the  main 
 viewpoint.  We  have  got  a  clustering  of 
 five  Java  white  copper  lace.  And  you 
 kind  of  see  how  we  have  it  just  a  little 
 bit  of  cluster  of  this,  cluster  of  that. 
 It's  really  nice  and  nice  and  tidy.  It's 
 not  20  or  40  or  50  plants.  It  is  like  a 
 a  swath  or  a  drift  of  these  and  a  drift 
 of  those  and  a  drift  of  these.  So,  it 
 doesn't  have  to  be  a  huge  amount  of 
 plants  that  you're  taking  from  the 
 nursery.  It  just  has  to  be  the  right 
 plant.  And  oh,  I  almost  forgot.  I've  got 
 three  foxtail  ferns  here  and  three 
 foxtail  ferns  over  on  that  side  over 
 there  just  to  give  us  a  little  bit  of  a 
 break  here.  And  then  everything  that  is 
 close  to  the  screen,  nice  and  small, 
 nice  and  compact  just  like  the  foxtail 
 ferns.  So  then  it  gets  a  little bit  wild 
 and  crazy  with  the  Java  whites  and  the 
 blaze  copper  leaf.  And  then  we  finished 
 it  off  on  the  corners  there  with  just  a 
 little  bit  of  blaze  copper  leaf  until 
 those  piggy  palms  get  taller,  get  some 
 size,  and  then  those  are  going  to  fill 
 in  underneath  of  the  pigment  eight  palms 
 and  kind  of  camouflage  the  neighbor's 
 fence  and  whatnot.  Oh,  so  I'm  popping  in 
 here  real  quick.  I  guess  I  forgot.  We  do 
 have  three  Caribbean  agave  in  the  front 
 to  kind  of  give  us  some  interest.  And 
 then  of  course  my  one  of  my  favorites, 
 the  Brazilian  red  cloaks  to  the 
 back.  All right,  you  guys.  So,  I  hope 
 that  made  sense.  That  kind  of  put  things 
 into  perspective.  If  this  is  something 
 that  you're  looking  to  do  for  yourself 
 and  want  to  tackle  this  project,  then 
 I'm  hoping  that  screenshot  of  what  we 
 did  here  might  help  or  might  be 
 something  that  you  want  to  play  with  in 
 your  own  garden.  If  you  need  more  than 
 that  kind  of  assistance,  then  as  you 
 guys  know,  we  are  a  landscape  design 
 installation  company.  So,  we  do 
 landscape  designs  all  across  the 
 Treasure  and  Space  Coast  and  we  also  do 
 landscape  designs  outside  of  that  area. 
 So,  those  of  you  guys  who  are  looking 
 for  this  kind  of  style  and  you  might 
 maybe  you're  going  to  do  it  yourself  or 
 maybe  you're  going  to  have  a  contractor 
 do  it  for  you,  we  do  provide  landscape 
 designs  with  CAD  drawings  so  that  way 
 you  can  find  a  contractor  to  incorporate 
 this  in  your  very  own  location.  But  if 
 you  need  just  a  little  bit  of 
 information,  maybe  you're  on  your  way, 
 maybe  you've  got  some  things  established 
 already,  maybe  you're  just,  you  know, 
 needing  some  input  in  some  particular 
 spaces,  we  do  offer  a  1-hour  virtual 
 consultation  online.  I'll  be  sure  to  put 
 all  of  the  information  down  below.  Give 
 Marissa  a  call.  She'll  kind  of  give  you 
 all  the  ins  and  outs  of  it,  and  then  you 
 can  see  if  we  are  going  to  be  a  good  fit 
 for  you.  So,  reach  out  to  us.  We'd  be 
 happy  to  hear  from  you.  All right,  you 
 guys.  That  is  it  for  today's  video. 
 Please  like  and  subscribe.  We  post  one 
 of  these  videos  every  single  weekend. 
 and  we  enjoy  doing  it.  So,  we  hope  that 
 you  guys  enjoy  watching  them.  Check  out 
 our  most  recent  garden  tour  that  we  did. 
 It  is  another  tropical  backyard  space 
 pool  planting.  That  was  actually  a  nice 
 large  space  to  work  with.  So,  this  might 
 give  you  guys  who  have  a  little  bigger 
 space  to  work  with  a  great  idea  on  what 
 to  do.  Take  care.

---

 Well,  hello  gardeners.  Welcome  back.  So, 
 today's  video  is  all  about  mistakes. 
 These  are  five  mistakes  that  I  will 
 never  make  again  in  my  garden.  So,  I 
 want  to  share  them  with  you  guys  so  it 
 cuts  to  the  chase.  You  guys  will  not 
 make  these  mistakes  or  if  you're  making 
 them,  maybe  it'll  help  you  kind  of  go  a 
 different  direction  and  save  you  a  bit 
 of  time  and  money.  Let's  jump  right  in. 
 All right,  guys.  So,  the  first  mistake  I 
 want  to  talk  about  today  is  luck  in 
 transplanting.  Whether  it's 
 transplanting  from  a  plant  or  tree  that 
 you  bought  from  the  nursery,  from  a 
 nursery  pot  to  in  the  ground,  or 
 something  like  what  I  have  here,  where 
 it's  a  plant  that's  going  to  go  from  a 
 pot  into  into  the  ground  because  it's 
 maybe  gotten  too  big  for  the  area.  The 
 very  first  thing  that  you  want  to  do  is 
 make  sure  that  you  loosen  that  pot.  So, 
 you  don't  want  to  kind  of  tug  or  or  pull 
 on  the  plant  or,  you  know,  put  any  kind 
 of  pressure  on  the  stem  at  all.  What  you 
 want  to  do  is  I  usually  take  my  Horyhori 
 knife  and  that's  my  garden  knife  for 
 those  of  you  who  are  curious  and  I'll 
 kind  of  just  slice  all  the  way  around 
 the  sides.  Now,  my  guys  will  use  the 
 machete  and  I'm  using  a  machete  on  the 
 edge  of  a  um  of  a  pot  and  kind  of 
 pulling  that  plant  out  of  to  free  it  up. 
 So,  you  want  to  put  as  minimal  amount  of 
 stress  on  that  trunk  instead  of  pulling 
 and  tugging.  You  kind  of  want  to  try  to 
 completely  if  you  can  prevent  that 
 pressure  on  that  trunk.  When  I  started 
 in  the  landscape  business  a  hundred 
 years  ago,  um  it  was  common  to  do 
 transplants  like  this.  You  know,  we  dug 
 the  hole  tad  bit  bigger  than  what  the 
 hole  or  the  root  ball  was.  We  planted  it 
 a  little  bit  of  top  soil  kind  of  mixed 
 in,  covered  it  back  up,  it  was  nice  and 
 level  with  the  ground,  and  added  mulch, 
 and  voila,  we  were  done.  And  that's  just 
 not  the  way  to  do  it.  You  know,  the  way 
 to  do  it  for  real  success  is  when  you're 
 when  you're  getting  ready  to  install 
 your  plant  or  your  tree,  then  you  want 
 to  make  sure  that  you  dig  that  hole,  but 
 dig  it  shallow  the  like  but  maybe  just 
 about  the  height  of  the  pot,  barely  the 
 height  of  the  pot,  but  three  times 
 wider.  So,  more  shallow,  but  wider.  So, 
 you  want  to  make  sure  that  you're  really 
 giving  those  roots  places  to  spread  this 
 way  because  that's  where  the  roots  are 
 going  to  go  first  before  they  go  deep. 
 So,  dig  that  that  hole  nice  and  wide, 
 three  times  wider  than  the  pot.  And  then 
 you  want  to  take  that  root  ball  and  uh 
 you  want  to  kind  of  we  call  it 
 butterflying.  So  you  kind  of  want  to 
 take  that  root  ball  and  you  want  to  pull 
 those  roots  apart.  That  way  they're  not 
 constantly  going  around  in  circles  where 
 with  that  pot  size  frame  because  that's 
 exactly  what  they'll  do.  Especially  if 
 you  guys  end  up  purchasing  something 
 that's  more  rootbound.  Now  if  you're 
 like  me  and  you  see  a  bigger  tree  at  the 
 nursery  than  the  rest  of  the  trees  and 
 that  grouping,  you  know  that  plant  or 
 tree  has  more  than  likely  been 
 rootbound.  and  it's  been  in  that  pot  a 
 long  time.  It's  ate  up  all  the 
 nutrients.  It's  big  and  it's  broad  and 
 it's  beautiful.  But  then  you  try  to  take 
 out  of  that  pot  and  it's  like,  you  know, 
 and  then  you  open  it  up  and  the  roots 
 are  like  a  defined  circle  like  this. 
 That  will  not  change  even  when  you  put 
 it  into  that  beautiful  big  ground  filled 
 with  good  soil.  You  have  to  force  it 
 open.  And  that  is  something  that  I 
 didn't  know  years  and  years  ago.  So  I'm 
 hoping  that  helps  some  of  you  guys,  you 
 know,  make  that  change  when  you're  doing 
 your  planting.  So,  if  it's  a  bigger 
 tree,  if  it's  like  a  25  gallon  or  even  a 
 15  gallon  tree  and  it's  really  compact 
 and  you  can't  break  it  apart  with  your 
 hand,  you  want  to  take  your  knife  or 
 machete.  I'll  take  my  Hy  blade  and  I'll 
 just  kind  of  pry  at  it  to  get  it  loose 
 to  get  it  open.  You  kind  of  want  to  open 
 that  up  because  you're  going  to  force 
 those  roots  out  and  go  sideways.  And  you 
 almost  want  to  plant  it  where  where  it's 
 more  of  a  a  flat  bottom  like  like  a 
 soggy  diaper.  You  kind  of  want  it  to  be 
 flat  at  the  bottom.  And  then  put  that 
 guy  right  in  the  ground  there.  And  then 
 you're  going  to  want  him  to  stick  up 
 that  root  ball,  that  top  of  that  root 
 ball  to  stick  up  three  to  four  inches 
 because  it  is  common  for  a  lot  of  people 
 just  to  make,  you  know,  maybe  an  inch  up 
 or,  you  know,  just  enough  for  mulch  to 
 go  over  top  of  it.  But  you  kind  of  want 
 to  raise  there  because  what  you're  going 
 to  back  fill  with  will  kind  of  compress 
 over  time.  And  if  you  guys  have  watched 
 my  channel,  you  know  that  I  like  to  back 
 fill  with  50%  black  cow,  25%  pine  bark 
 nuggets,  and  25%  Pete  moss.  You  know, 
 that  is  my  golden  mix.  That  is  a  mix 
 that  everything  seems  to  do  super  well 
 with.  So  once  you  dig  that  hole,  once 
 you  have  a  fresh  and  open  hole,  you  want 
 to  set  that  tree  or  set  that  plant  right 
 into  that  space  and  then  back  fill  all 
 the  way  around  it.  Now,  there  is  one 
 caveat  to  that.  There's  been  times  where 
 we've  been  on  a  project  and  my  guys  have 
 dug  a  hole  and  there's  water  in  that 
 bottom  of  that  hole.  And  if  there's 
 water,  sitting  water  in  there,  and  that 
 water  looks  like  maybe  it's  been  there  a 
 little  while  and  maybe  even  has  an  odor 
 or  a  smell  to  it,  then  you  know  that 
 area  doesn't  drain  well.  So,  you  got  to 
 do  something  about  that  before  you  put  a 
 brand  new  plant  or  a  brand  new  tree  in 
 that  space.  And  I  mention  this  because 
 this  happens  maybe  three  out  of  five 
 times  when  we  dig  a  hole  because  a  lot 
 of  these  new  developments,  they're 
 beautiful  developments,  but  a  lot  of 
 them  have  used  soil  to  back  fill  their 
 yards  with  that  come  from  lake  banks, 
 you  know,  come  from  the  the  the  big 
 lakes  that  they  dug  out  and  they  use 
 that  soil  there.  So,  what  does  that  soil 
 do?  It  doesn't  drain,  you  know,  so  it's 
 not  good  for  plants.  So,  you've  got  to 
 modify  that  a  little  bit.  And  the 
 cheapest  and  easiest  and  quickest  way  to 
 do  that  is  to  use  gypsum.  I  use  that.  I 
 have  it  in  the  back  of  my  truck.  My  guys 
 have  it  in  the  back  of  their  truck.  It's 
 like  an  emergency,  you  know,  grab 
 solution  if  you  see  water  sitting  in  a 
 hole.  So,  the  best  thing  to  do  is  grab 
 several  handfuls  of  it.  You're  not  going 
 to  hurt  your  new  plant  or  you're  not 
 your  new  tree.  You're  not  going  to  burn 
 roots.  You're  not  going  to  do  anything 
 to  it.  But  there's  a  chemical  reaction 
 with  gypsum  and  clay  or  compact  soil. 
 Once  it  hits  that,  it  breaks  it  up.  So 
 you  almost  go  into  almost  immediate 
 draining  after  that.  So  we  constantly 
 have  that  on  hand  and  we  use  that  as  we 
 go.  And  then  I'll  let  my  clients  know, 
 hey,  we  ran  across  this  problem.  You're 
 going  to  want  to  buy  a  bag  of  this, 
 stick  it  in  your  garage,  and  every  so 
 often  throw  that  out  there.  And  that  way 
 it  kind  of  helps  it  helps  um  break  up 
 the  soil  along  the  top  because  you  need 
 air.  You  need  movement  in  that  soil  for 
 good,  healthy  plants.  So  if  you  see  that 
 happen,  throw  that  in  there.  There  is 
 one  other  thing  that  I  want  to  mention. 
 When  you're  in  that  process,  the  hole  is 
 still  open.  and  you've  added  a  little 
 bit  of  soil  to  it.  If  it's  a  palm  tree 
 or  a  tropical,  use  palm  tone.  This  is  my 
 perfect  time.  I  I  wish  I  had  a  bag.  I 
 just  actually  just  used  a  bag,  finished 
 a  bag  off,  so  I  don't  have  one  with  me, 
 but  use  palm  tone.  It  is  a  perfect  time 
 to  use  it.  Sprinkle  that  at  the  bottom 
 of  the  hole.  Put  the  plant  or  the  tree 
 into  that  spot.  It  is  organic,  so  it's 
 not  going  to  burn  your  uh  roots,  but 
 it's  going  to  give  it  kind  of  a  big  jump 
 start.  It's  going  to  give  it  that  impact 
 that  you  want  for  your  new  plant  or  your 
 tree  to  really  just  thrive  and  and  throw 
 out  good  roots.  So,  so  go  ahead  and  use 
 it  that  time  and  then  back  fill  with 
 that  three-part  moss  mix  that  I  like  to 
 use,  the  pine  bark,  the  black  cow,  and 
 the  Pete  moss.  And  then  back  fill. 
 You're  going  to  have  a  little  bit  of 
 height  that's  going  to  be  there.  Do  not 
 worry  about  that  height.  It  will  settle 
 over  time.  What  you  want  to  happen  is 
 you're  allowing  for  that  area  to  settle 
 because  if  you  plant  it  level,  it  will 
 settle  and  create  a,  you  know,  a  little 
 divot  there.  And  what  that  will  happen 
 every  time  it  rains,  that  area  will  hold 
 water  and  your  tree  or  your  plant  will 
 start  to  get  root  rot  over  time.  And 
 it's  a  slow  and  ugly  death.  And  you're 
 constantly  wondering  what's  wrong  with 
 your  plant  or  your  tree.  So  avoid  that 
 by  putting  a  little  high  from  the  very 
 beginning  and  then  you're  then  you're 
 goldens.  So  I  hope  that  helps.  We've  had 
 great  success  with  transplanting  that 
 way.  We  did  a  video  of  that  a  couple 
 weeks  ago.  I'll  get  Bryce  to  post  it 
 here  and  put  it  in  the  description  down 
 below  if  you  guys  would  like  to  see  it. 
 And  we  used  so  much  I  would  say  over  a 
 hundred  plants  of  material  that  was 
 already  on  site  and  we  did  not  lose  one 
 plant.  And  so  I  am  it's  that's  a  success 
 story  to  me  when  we  can  transplant  that 
 many  plants  in  a  garden,  take  it  because 
 they  were  decent  plants  and  then  rework 
 it  into  the  landscape  kind  of  like 
 musical  chairs  when  it  comes  to  planting 
 and  then  create  a  new  design  with  it.  So 
 you  guys,  just  give  it  a  little  extra 
 care,  a  little  bit  of  extra  time,  and 
 then  you're  going  to  have  a  successful 
 garden  that  way.  I  hope  that  helps.  All 
 right,  you  guys.  So  the  next  mistake  is 
 a  mistake  I  made  years  and  years  and 
 years  ago,  but  I  do  see  it  happening 
 when  I  go  to  clients  houses,  so  I 
 thought  I  would  share  it  with  you  guys. 
 So  planting  in  one  or  twos,  that  means 
 like  if  you  went  to  the  garden  center 
 and  you  see  this  perfect  little  plant  or 
 a  perfect  little  accent  and  you're  like, 
 "Okay,  I'm  just  going  to  put  one  in  the 
 garden  or  I'm  going  to  put  two  in  the 
 garden  and  then  go  find  something  else 
 and  put  one  or  two  and  then  one  or  two 
 and  one  or  two."  And  then  you  have  this, 
 you  know,  this  concoction  of  a  bunch  of 
 different  plants  kind  of  just,  you  know, 
 trying  to  fight  each  other  off  in  the 
 gardens.  I  know  that  that's  tempting, 
 especially  when  you're  only  shopping 
 every  so  often  and  you're  adding  as  you 
 go.  But  if  you  can  pick  put  together  a 
 plan  of  plant  groupings  that  you  like 
 and  work  with  them  in  your  garden, 
 you're  going  to  love  that  so  much  more. 
 So,  I  plant  in  drifts.  Even  as  a 
 tropical  landscaper,  I  plant  in  drifts. 
 So,  it  might  not  feel  like  that  when  you 
 look  at  my  garden.  It  feels  like  there's 
 a  lot  going  on.  There's  a  lot  of 
 different  layers,  but  I  promise  you 
 there's  a  rhythm  um  to  the  madness  here. 
 So,  for  example,  you  know,  I  have  I  have 
 my  magnificent  croins  right  through 
 here.  And  you  can  see  that  I  have  a  nice 
 drift  or  a  collection  or  a  swath, 
 whatever  you  want  to  call  it,  of 
 magnificent  croins  in  this  one 
 particular  spot.  Now,  I  have  this 
 grouping  here  because  it's  not  going  to 
 ever  compete  with  my  Laquala  palm  that's 
 behind  it.  They're  going  to  stay  very, 
 very  low.  And  when  they  start  to  grow, 
 they're  slow  such  slow  growers  that  I 
 can  easily  maintain  them  by  trimming 
 them  ever  so  often.  So  I  you  I'll  plant 
 that  grouping  just  like  that.  And  then 
 I'll  do  little  touches  like  you  have  a 
 little  grouping  of  five  of  these  burl 
 marks.  And  you  guys  bear  with  us  because 
 we  just  did  our  spring  trimming.  So 
 things  are  not  as  gorgeous  as  they 
 normally  are.  But  normally  they're 
 feeding  right  over.  They're  thick  and 
 they're  dense.  But  I  did  thin  them  out 
 to  allow  some  air  to  get  in  there.  But 
 you  can  kind  of  see  what  I  mean.  Now 
 when  you  plant  in  drifts,  if  you  could 
 do  your  best  to  find  different  levels  of 
 how  those  plants  grow.  Like  these  are 
 never  going  to  compete  with  the  size  of 
 these.  These  are  going  to  stay  at  that  2 
 and  a  half,  three  foot  range  and  then 
 you're  golden.  That's  just  going  to 
 thicken  right  up  and  become  that 
 gorgeous  little  swath  of  dark  shiny 
 green.  And  then  you  got  this  great  bit 
 of  color  that's  going  to  be  around  4  and 
 1/2t  tall  to  give  you  that  bright 
 coloration.  And  then  it's  going  to  stop. 
 And  I  do  the  same  thing  with  all  of  my 
 plants  and  trees.  And  Bryce,  if  you 
 shoot  over  here,  you'll  see  that  I  have 
 a  collection  of  icon  croins  doing  the 
 same  thing  up  here  and  then  some  dwarf 
 exoras  coming  along  through  here.  Not 
 only  does  the  variety  of  plants  change, 
 but  the  height  and  the  levels  change. 
 So,  plant  in  swast,  it  gives  you  that 
 more  of  a  of  a  professional  look.  And 
 also,  it's  just  easy  on  the  eyes.  See, 
 when  you  plant  in  groups  like  this, 
 you're  going  to  notice  that,  you  know, 
 you're  going  to  have  one  solid 
 collection.  And  I  try  to  zigzag  the 
 pattern.  So,  when  I  do  it  in  a  grouping 
 of  four,  you'll  notice  I'll  have  kind  of 
 like  a  zigzag  pattern  going  on  because  I 
 want  them  to  connect  together.  I  want 
 them  to  become  a  bish  big  almost  like  a 
 one  bush  type  of  planting,  like  a  real 
 big  cluster.  And  then  when  I  go  around  a 
 focal  point  like  you  see  here,  I  tend  to 
 more  wrap  it  around  the  focal  point. 
 Kind  of  give  it  a  little  bit  of 
 curvature.  But  we're  sticking  with  a 
 collection  of  plants,  but  we're  not 
 we're  not  meshing  them  all  together.  So 
 if  you  can  instead  of  doing  one  of  these 
 and  another  one  of  these  and  then  one  of 
 these  and  another  one  of  these,  which 
 kind  of  can  confuse  the  eye  or  or  just 
 kind  of  be  a  little  bit  too  chaotic, 
 just  do  one  drift  then  stop  like  a  break 
 and  then  do  another  drift.  And  if  you 
 can  pay  attention  to  the  height  growth 
 on  those  things  and  make  sure  one  drift 
 is  higher  than  the  other  drift.  So 
 naturally  the  garden  does  this  through 
 the  whole  space.  So  not  only  does  it 
 change  with  color,  lights  and  darknesses 
 or  texture  is  big  leaf,  little  leaf,  but 
 it  also  does  that  with  heights.  And  then 
 before  you  know  it,  you'll  look  out 
 there  and  say,  "Okay,  I  know  this  is  a 
 jungle  and  I  know  it's  chaotic,  but  it 
 has  rhyme.  It  has  reason.  It  has,  you 
 know,  it  it's  it's  soothing."  And  that's 
 kind  of  what  when  you  go  to  resorts  and 
 what  whatnot,  the  architects  have 
 figured  that  out  and  that's  kind  of  what 
 they  created.  It  looks  like  a  little  bit 
 of  chaos,  but  in  all  rights,  it's  really 
 just  a  garden  really  well  thought  out. 
 So,  I  learned  that  early  early  on  in  my 
 career  because  I  thought  tropical  meant 
 just  throw  things  in  and  be  really  crazy 
 and  have  a  leaf  on  leaf  kind  of  vibe  and 
 that's  not  the  case.  So,  so  I  I  hope 
 that  tip  helped.  That  embarrassing  tip 
 that  I  could  share  with  you  helped.  All 
 right,  you  guys.  for  the  next  mistake  is 
 one  I  shamefully  made  in  my  own  garden 
 years  ago  when  I  planted  my  Laquala. 
 Right  plant,  right  place  or  suffer  the 
 consequences.  Now,  I  absolutely  love 
 this  plant.  I  do  not  want  to  take  it  out 
 because  I  I'm  almost  like  hoping  she 
 will  withstand  the  conditions.  So,  when 
 I  say  right  plant  for  the  right  place, 
 it  it  covers  a  little  bit  more  than 
 that.  So,  Bryce,  show  show  everyone  this 
 area  really  quickly  so  you  guys  get  a 
 good  vibe,  get  a  good  understanding  of 
 what  we're  dealing  with  in  this 
 particular  location.  So,  you  would  not 
 think  this  area  gets  as  much  wind  as  it 
 gets,  but  it,  as  you  can  see,  it  does. 
 It's  a  a  great  backyard.  going  to  get 
 great  breezes.  And  I  thought  that  I  had 
 done  my  due  diligence  and  kind  of 
 creating  a  wall  around  this  particular 
 tree  to  kind  of  help  prepare  it  to  be  in 
 this  location  and  withstand  this  area, 
 but  we  just  have  a  little  bit  too  much 
 wind  for  it  to  be  super  super  happy.  You 
 can  see  the  tear  in  the  leaves.  And  that 
 goes  for  a  lot  of  us.  You  know,  we  find 
 a  plant  or  we  find  a  tree  that  we're 
 like,  you  know  what,  I  have  Pinterested 
 this  for  like  five  years.  I  want  this 
 tree  in  my  garden  or  I  want  this  plant 
 in  my  garden.  but  it's  a  a  a  shade  plant 
 that  loves  to  be  in  a  hammock  planting 
 and  then  you  want  to  put  it  in  full  sun 
 and  it's  just  it's  just  not  going  to  be 
 happy.  And  so  you're  going  to  fight  that 
 battle  over  and  over  again  and  by  kind 
 of  really  having  to  treat  it  really 
 really  well  to  do  well.  So  when  Bryce 
 and  I  go  to  our  consults,  we  deal  with 
 our  clients.  The  first  thing  that  we 
 talk  to  them  about  is  show  me  your 
 vision.  Talk  to  me  about  what  your 
 Pinterest  board  says  of  what  you  want  to 
 create  in  your  backyard.  And  that  way  we 
 can  determine  from  what  we  see  in  our 
 knowledge  of  how  much  sun,  how  much 
 exposure,  how  much  wind,  how  much  salt, 
 how  much  if  it's  a  soggy  area,  whatever 
 those  situations  are,  we're  kind  of 
 pairing  that  to  my  our  client  style.  And 
 you  know,  if  I  get  a  client  who  says,  "I 
 love  your  backyard.  I'm  really  into  that 
 jungle  vibe,  that  tropical  vibe,  but  I 
 don't  need  the  trees.  I  just  kind  of 
 want  the  plants.  I  want  the  color."  And 
 then  I  look  at  their  backyard  and  it's 
 full  sun.  And  then  I  have  to  break  it  to 
 them  and  say,  "You  you  guys,  we  got  to 
 find  some  ways  to  protect  it.  But  we  got 
 to  change  your  microclimate  in  your 
 backyard  in  order  for  that  plant  or  that 
 tree  or  that  grouping  that  you  want  to 
 create  to  really  flourish  and  do  well. 
 Other  than  that,  you're  just  going  to  be 
 disappointed  and  have  put  a  lot  of 
 expense  into  a  garden  that's  just  not 
 sustainable  for  the  area.  You  can't  you 
 got  to  work  with  mother  nature.  It  is 
 like  the  perfect  handshake  with  mother 
 nature  by  saying,  "Okay,  I  want  to  do 
 this  and  you  know  this  environment  will 
 call  for  that.  So,  we're  going  to  have  a 
 nice  marriage  here."  So  that's  what  if 
 you're  not  working  with  a  landscape 
 designer,  you  have  to  do  a  little  bit  of 
 research  on  reading  those  labels, 
 understanding  your  location.  And  so  I'll 
 tell  my  clients  or  consults  if  I'm  not 
 working  with  them.  I'll  tell  them,  you 
 know,  go  outside  on  a  a  Sunday  when 
 you're  home  all  day.  Go  out  every  couple 
 hours,  do  your  front  yard,  your 
 sideyard,  your  backyard,  whatever  area 
 that  you're  going  to  do  your 
 landscaping,  and  just  put  from  morning 
 to  evening  hours  how  much  sun  you're 
 getting.  Are  you  getting  full  sun?  Just 
 put  sun,  sun,  sun,  shade,  shade,  shade. 
 That  way  you  know  if  you're  getting  six 
 to  eight  hours  of  sun,  which  is  what  a 
 sunloving  plant  wants.  If  you're  getting 
 less  than  that,  then  voila,  you're  in 
 the  shade  garden  family  and  you  can 
 incorporate  those  into  your  garden 
 without  any  kind  of  fuss  or  any  kind  of 
 worry.  Now,  keep  in  mind  if  you're  in  a 
 windy  location  than  this,  you  might  have 
 to  put  in  some  tree  bras  to  make  that 
 happen.  I  recently  spoke  with  another 
 designer  who  had  to  redesign  a  project 
 because  a  previous  architect,  a 
 well-known  architect,  had  designed  15 
 Laqualas.  My  gosh,  you  guys.  I'm  not 
 calling  the  wind.  This  is  completely 
 circumstantial,  but  it  it's  pretty  bad 
 back  here.  But  had  put  in  so  many 
 Laqualas  in  this  riverfront  area  where 
 the  wind  just  gusted  through  and  you 
 would  not  know.  It  did  not  have  one  leaf 
 on  them.  I  mean,  they  were  just  I  mean, 
 these  are  expensive  little  trees  and  for 
 that  whole  area  to  completely  be 
 shattered  with  just  not  just  I  mean, 
 they  look  more  like  ribbon  palms  with 
 their  poor  little  little  itty  bitty 
 stringy  fronds  to  them.  So,  you  know, 
 just  pay  attention  to  your  environment 
 and  you  can  do  that  by  just  reading  a 
 little  bit  about  the  plant  or  the  tree. 
 Um,  but  that's  a  mistake  I've  even  made 
 in  the  past  years  ago  and  I  I  am  adamant 
 not  to  make  again.  So,  I  hope  sharing 
 that  with  you  guys,  you  guys  will  not 
 make  that  same  mistake.  So,  the  next 
 mistake  I  wanted  to  touch  on  is  you  do 
 not  need  to  fertilize  your  palms,  your 
 trees,  your  plants  in  Florida.  The 
 tropical  plants  and  trees  can  withstand 
 and  live  so  well  in  our  tropical 
 climate.  And  part  of  that  is  true.  They 
 live  fantastic  here.  But  the  other  part, 
 not  so  much.  You  guys,  we  you  need  to 
 fertilize  your  plants  and  trees  for  one 
 big  reason.  It  fights  off  the  pest.  It's 
 like  the  best  immunity  shot  that  you  can 
 give  your  plants  or  your  trees.  So  there 
 was  a  study  done  in  the  University  of 
 Michigan  where  they  had  a  healthy  and 
 unhealthy  milkweed  and  they  saw  which 
 one  attacked  more  and  obviously  as  we 
 know  the  unhealthy  one  attacked  quite  a 
 bit  more  but  it  was  astonishing  to  like 
 the  percentage  it  was  like  99%  attacked 
 the  unhealthy  where  1%  attacked  the 
 other  and  it  was  short-lived.  I  mean 
 like  they  really  could  not  digest  the 
 healthy  milkweed  so  they  moved  on.  And 
 not  that  we  want  to  move,  you  know,  we 
 don't  want  our  pests  to  move  on  to  our 
 neighbors  gardens,  but  we  don't  want 
 them  in  ours.  So  if  those  of  you  guys 
 who  hate  using  synthetic  fertilizers  in 
 your  garden,  then  you  know,  just  know 
 that  if  you  do  that  or  you  treat  your 
 gardens  and  you  really  fertilize  and 
 take  good  good  care  of  them,  then  you  do 
 not  have  to  worry  about  doing  that  those 
 drenches  so  frequently  or  so  often.  I 
 have  a  very  extensive  garden  as  you  guys 
 can  see.  I  mean,  it's  it's  pretty  full. 
 Everything  is  really  collected.  I  mean, 
 it  is  a  bug  magnet,  but  it's  not.  I  have 
 to  drench  or  treat  very  very  rarely.  And 
 I  know  that  it's  because  everything  is 
 happy  and  strong  and  had  its  immunity 
 shot.  And  so,  you  guys  definitely 
 definitely  take  it  to  heart.  You  know, 
 treat  your  plants  and  trees  with  those, 
 you  know,  four  times  a  year.  Hit  it  with 
 that  granular  fertilizer.  You  will  not 
 be  disappointed  with  how  well  they  hold 
 up  during  not  just  pest  and  bugs,  but 
 during  storms,  during  cold  weather.  I 
 mean,  it's  a  way  to  keep  your  garden 
 just  strong  and  lush.  So,  do  not  sleep 
 on  treating  your  garden  with  some  good 
 fertilizer  four  times  a  year.  It's  worth 
 it.  But  real  quick,  this  is  what  I  use. 
 And  I  know  if  you  guys  have  watched  this 
 channel,  you  know  that  I  pull  this  guy 
 out  all  the  time.  I  use  Palm  Gain  8212. 
 I  use  it  for  all  of  my  tropicals,  which 
 is  pretty  much  101%  of  my  garden.  So  you 
 can  use  this  granular  mix,  throw  it  into 
 the  ground,  kind  of  chicken  feed  it  into 
 the  open  areas  of  the  mulch  and  voila, 
 you  are  done  and  it  really  really  limits 
 any  kind  of  other  kind  of  u  pest  control 
 that  you  have  to  do  to  the  rest  of  your 
 garden.  So  for  the  next  mistake  is  one 
 that  you  know  a  lot  of  us  have  made  and 
 so  I  if  you're  starting  with  a  new 
 garden  then  you  guys  listen  up  because 
 the  next  one  is  really  paying  attention 
 to  the  growth  rates  that  you  see  on  the 
 tags  at  the  nursery.  Listen  to  your 
 nursery  people  when  they  tell  you  that 
 this  plant  is  going  to  get  this  size  or 
 this  plant's  going  to  need  this  much 
 room  for  growth  rate.  So,  when  I'm 
 designing  a  landscape,  that  is  I  would 
 say  that's  one  of  the  most  important 
 things  that  I  do  in  a  landscape  design 
 because  if  you  design  a  plant  or  tree 
 grouping  backwards,  you'll  know  it.  You 
 don't  have  to  be  professional  to  see 
 that  happen.  So,  the  thing  that  you  want 
 to  pay  attention  to  is  when  you're 
 looking  or  you're  deciding  on  a  plant 
 grouping,  just  because  it  says  dwarf  on 
 it  does  not  mean  it's  going  to  be  dwarf. 
 It  just  means  that  it  can  be  maintained 
 as  a  smaller  plant,  but  it  does  not  mean 
 that  it  will  stay  that  height  and  never 
 grow.  I  hear  that  all  the  time  from  my 
 clients  who  were  gold  mound  had  been 
 planted  10  years  ago  and  now  it's  5  foot 
 tall  and  they're  like,  "No,  they  said 
 this  plant  was  going  to  be  two  foot  tall 
 and  stop."  And  what  they  mean  is  that 
 plant  can  be  cut  and  maintained  at  2 
 foot  tall  very  easily.  So  dwarf  plants 
 show  two  types  of  characteristics. 
 either  they  grow  very  slow  so  you  can 
 easily  maintain  them  at  that  size  with 
 very  very  little  maintenance  or  they'll 
 grow  fast  like  a  dwarf  fire  bush  and  um 
 become  a  a  gorgeous  wall  of  color.  But 
 if  you  want  to  keep  them  at  3  foot  and 
 never  allow  them  to  get  any  bigger,  then 
 you  can  trim  and  they  will  still  flush 
 out  and  be  bushy  and  gorgeous  at  3t  tall 
 forever.  Unlike  something  like  a 
 hibiscus  or  a  gardinia,  if  you  try  to 
 trim  that  and  keep  that  three  foot  tall, 
 then  you'll  have  nothing  but  sticks.  It 
 won't  reproduce  nice  blooms  or  or  color 
 on  it.  It'll  just  kind  of  stay,  you 
 know,  pretty  unhealthy.  So,  when  it's 
 dwarf,  you  can  be  you  can  keep  things  at 
 a  slower  rate.  So,  that  is  the  goal  of 
 planting  dwarf  plants  with  your  taller 
 plant  groupings.  The  next  thing  is  kind 
 of  pay  attention  to  how  generally  things 
 grow.  So,  when  I'm  working  with  a 
 design,  for  instance,  in  my  backyard 
 here,  you  see  I  put  the  tallest  thing 
 first.  So,  the  tallest  thing  that  you 
 see  in  my  garden  back  here  is  that 
 traveler's  palm.  Now,  I  planted  that 
 traveler's  palm  the  same  time  I  planted 
 most  of  the  things  in  this  garden,  in 
 this  like  section  of  the  garden.  But 
 because  it  grows  five  times  faster,  I 
 knew  that  there  was  nothing  in  front  of 
 it  that  was  going  to  compete  with  it. 
 But  if  I  put  that  traveler's  palm  in 
 front  of  this  palm  here  or  in  front  of 
 these  guys  here,  then  it's  gonna 
 completely  block  the  the  beauty  of  those 
 those  plants.  Sorry,  this  wind  is 
 kicking  our  butt  today,  you  guys.  But  so 
 you  can  plant  those  guys,  but  I  wouldn't 
 put  these  Brazilian  red  cloaks  in  front 
 of  these  gold  dust  croins.  These  gold 
 dust  croins  do  a  nice  job  of  staying 
 compact  and  small.  I  trim  these  very, 
 very  little  because  I  don't  have  to 
 worry  about  them  competing  with  height 
 like  this  to  get  above  these  Brazilian 
 red  cloaks.  So,  when  you're  looking  at 
 the  plant  tags,  pay  attention  to  where 
 it  says  sun,  of  course,  shade,  of 
 course,  windy  conditions,  moist 
 conditions,  that  kind  of  stuff  or  it's 
 all  of  those  things  are  important,  but 
 height  is  just  as  important  because  you 
 want  to  layer  in  here.  We've  got  my 
 annuals  at  the  bottom  for  ground  cover. 
 We've  got  the  gold  dust  croins  that  have 
 been  here  for  years  as  our  secondary 
 tier.  And  then  we've  got  the  Brazilian 
 red  cloaks  that  are  filling  out  this 
 area.  Lovely.  And  then  we've  got  the  the 
 traveler's  palm  right  here  to  the  back 
 as  our  backdrop.  And  then  just  to  give 
 these  Brazilian  red  cloaks  when  they  do 
 pop  with  color,  we  have  those  kucas  at 
 our  as  our  wall  as  our  final  backdrop 
 there.  So  that  blocks  out  the  screen  the 
 pool  screen  behind  us  and  it  kind  of 
 gives  us  a  green  screen  to  all  of  the 
 fun  and  color  in  the  front.  So  it  does  a 
 good  job  of  really  helping  us  visualize 
 those  layers  as  we  tear  down.  Just  think 
 of  it  as  a  waterfall.  Just  start  from 
 the  top  and  you  just  kind  of  want  to  see 
 your  defined  layers  kind  of  all  the  way 
 down  to  the  ground  cover.  And  that's 
 what  gives  you  that  lush  garden  feel. 
 And  this  area  maintenance  is  so  minimal, 
 you  guys.  It's  just  it  it's  fabulous  how 
 easy  care  this  area  is.  So  understanding 
 your  layers  from  the  beginning,  it  can 
 be  so  important.  So  before  you  start, 
 you  know,  plopping  plants  or  trees  into 
 the  ground,  really  figure  out  what  your 
 foundation  trees  are  going  to  be  and 
 then  work  your  way  down.  Just  again, 
 think  of  a  waterfall  effect.  You  know, 
 start  from  the  top  and  work  your  way 
 down.  And  then  you're  going  to  really, 
 really  be  happy  with  how  that  flows 
 through  the  garden,  how  those  defined 
 lines  do  that.  And  then  you'll  be 
 wondering  what  to  do  with  your  weekends 
 because  you  won't  be  out  here  working  in 
 the  garden.  You'll  be  just  enjoying  it. 
 All  right,  you  guys.  So,  I  know  that  we 
 threw  a  lot  at  you  in  this  video.  I  hope 
 these  these  tips  on  not  making  some  of 
 the  mistakes  that  I've  made  help  you 
 through  your  gardening  process,  cuz 
 that's  what  this  video  is  all  about.  If 
 these  are  things  that  you  enjoy 
 watching,  if  you  want  to  see  one  day 
 gardening  facts  or  a  video  that  we  made 
 a  couple  weeks  ago  about  debunking 
 gardening  myths  or  or  gardening  tours 
 that  we  do  where  we  share  our  plants  and 
 trees  and  the  knowledge  that  we  have 
 about  them,  then  please  like  and 
 subscribe.  I  know  that  the  algorithm  and 
 my  content  is  not  optimized.  Bryce  and  I 
 are  not  special  media  marketers.  We  are 
 actually  true  landscape  designers.  We 
 just  don't  play  that  on  YouTube.  So,  if 
 this  is  something  that  you  guys  like, 
 then  please  subscribe.  that  lets  YouTube 
 know  that  this  is  something  that  you 
 guys  enjoy  watching.  It  will  send  you 
 more  of  this  kind  of  content  and  I  will 
 get  to  see  you  every  single  weekend.  So, 
 if  this  video  leads  you  to  wanting  more 
 information  or  wanting  more  guidance 
 into  creating  your  beautiful  tropical 
 landscape,  then  as  you  guys  know,  I  am  a 
 landscape  designer.  I  we  do  projects  all 
 along  the  space  and  treasure  coast.  I 
 have  a  full-time  installation  team  where 
 we  do  all  these  projects  every  single 
 day.  And  then  we  also  have  a  designon 
 and  a  consultation  process.  So,  if  this 
 is  something  that  you  guys  are  looking 
 for,  you  just  need  a  hand  or  you  need 
 help  or  you  need  a  plan  to  kind  of  do  on 
 your  own  over  time,  then  please  reach 
 out  to  your  girl.  I'd  be  happy  to  help 
 you.  I'll  put  all  of  our  contact 
 information  down  below  and  I  will  see 
 you  guys  in  the  very  next  video.  to  take 
 care.

---

 well  hello  gardeners  welcome  back  we  are 
 in  Palm  Beach  Florida  today  for  another 
 Garden  Tour  it  is  absolutely  stunning 
 backyard  we  did  it  about  two  and  a  half 
 three  months  ago  um  during  the  coolest 
 part  of  the  weather  now  we're  in  the 
 spring  and  things  are  starting  to  flush 
 out  and  really  just  you  know  unfold 
 today's  video  is  going  to  be  about 
 softening  spaces  if  you  guys  have  been 
 in  a  situation  like  my  clients  where  you 
 know  you  pick  things  out  of  a  magazine 
 you  put  up  pergas  put  up  fountains  put 
 up  all  these  kind  of  features  Maybe 
 enlarged  your  back  patio  deck  and  it 
 just  felt  unfinished  it  just  felt  maybe 
 a  little  harsh  the  corners  or  maybe  not 
 as  enveloped  as  what  you  had  hoped 
 that's  what  my  clients  came  to  me  with 
 they  were  like  I  love  the  space  but  it 
 just  I  don't  know  it  just  didn't  come 
 together  like  we  had  hoped  so  what  we 
 did  is  we  brought  in  three  islands  three 
 good  siiz  landscape  islands  around  their 
 uh  patio  section  to  really  Nestle  that 
 area  in  to  really  give  it  some  layers 
 it's  you  know  it  was  quite  a  partnership 
 with  mother  nature  in  this  to  kind  of 
 really  just  kind  of  top  off  the  the 
 curves  and  kind  of  really  help  some  of 
 the  nooks  and  and  create  some  of  some 
 softness  around  there  those  of  you  guys 
 who  don't  know  me  my  name  is  Jennifer 
 bevans  I  am  a  landscape  designer  of  25 
 plus  years  in  business  I  do  all  the 
 designs  my  in-house  landscape  team  does 
 the  installations  we  have  a  full  service 
 like  that  but  we  also  have  just  design 
 service  and  we  also  have  consultations 
 virtual  consultations  for  clients  that 
 might  be  just  outside  of  our  area  so 
 reach  out  to  us  I'll  put  our  contact 
 information  down  below  and  you  can  let 
 us  know  if  we're  going  to  be  the  right 
 fit  for  what  you're  looking  for  Bryce 
 just  reminded  me  please  do  not  forget  to 
 like  And  subscribe  we  post  a  video  every 
 single  weekend  so  hit  that  notification 
 Bell  so  you'll  see  us  in  your  feed  every 
 single  weekend  so  but  now  let's  get 
 started  so  the  first  island  that  we're 
 going  to  look  at  is  the  one  that's  right 
 behind  me  here  and  I  know  you  guys  saw 
 that  in  the  before  pictures  this  is  the 
 driveway  here  where  my  clients  come  and 
 all  of  their  guests  when  they  entertain 
 so  I  really  knew  was  going  to  be 
 important  to  kind  of  create  some  impact 
 starting  from  the  driveway  itself  so 
 what  we  did  is  we  brought  in  um  a  royal 
 palm  on  this  corner  and  a  big  splash  of 
 red  these  are  red  copper  leaves  so 
 they're  also  called  Jacob's  coat  copper 
 leaf  they're  very  similar  to  the 
 Louisiana  Reds  they're  just  a  little  bit 
 more  compact  they  don't  get  quite  so 
 large  I  didn't  need  something  fully  to 
 camouflage  this  area  I  just  kind  of 
 wanted  a  sea  of  impact  so  these  are 
 fabulous  for  full  sun  chunk  out  really 
 well  to  together  however  you  do  want  to 
 kind  of  keep  them  in  one  solid  grouping 
 so  kind  of  like  how  I  have  here  where  it 
 kind  of  Curves  and  S's  and  this  is  the 
 backdrop  it's  not  going  to  compete  with 
 any  of  the  plants  to  the  front  because 
 it  is  the  backdrop  border  but  you'll 
 notice  that  when  you're  entering  this 
 area  in  the  before  pictures  what  you  saw 
 first  was  those  quite  large  quite  white 
 pergolas  and  I  is  much  as  I  love  them  as 
 much  as  I  thought  that  they  just  really 
 set  off  the  backyard  they're  kind  of 
 harsh  when  you  don't  have  some  layers 
 like  this  in  front  of  it  so  we  started 
 with  the  Royal  Palms  that  you  see  here 
 then  it  drops  down  to  an  inter 
 intermediate  tree  of  this  triple  King 
 Alexander  which  I  love  these  guys  I  love 
 how  vibrant  their  fronds  are  they're 
 fantastic  tree  accents  very  similar  to 
 the  Christmas  Palm  but  a  little  bit 
 beefier  of  a  tree  a  little  bit  bigger  so 
 this  is  the  king  variety  of  the 
 Alexanders  the  the  regular  Alexanders 
 are  a  little  thinner  trunk  a  little 
 smaller  FR  so  if  you  need  a  little  bit 
 more  PCT  than  the  king  Alexanders  are 
 ideal  they'll  grow  all  the  way  up  to  27 
 ft  when  they're  triples  as  they  mature 
 they'll  start  to  open  up  so  if  you've 
 got  kind  of  like  um  two  big  tree 
 structures  on  either  side  having 
 something  like  that  as  a  centerpiece 
 tree  opens  up  and  becomes  a  really  nice 
 intermediate  tree  to  larger  trees  so 
 that  only  works  when  the  trees  that  are 
 combining  or  next  to  it  are  something 
 like  a  royal  palm  or  a  fox  tail  Palm  or 
 even  a  queen  palm  but  something  that's 
 going  to  get  tall  in  size  so  that  way 
 there's  always  an  elevation  change  these 
 will  grow  huge  just  like  Fox  taals  will 
 get  all  the  way  up  to  30  ft  and  then 
 you'll  get  into  these  with  that  higher 
 intermediate  range  and  then  again  we 
 have  a  clustering  of  fox  tail  behind 
 them  so  let's  walk  up  the  walkway  this 
 project  is  not  quite  finished  with  my 
 client  they're  getting  ready  to  do  some 
 some  some  Turf  in  between  these  these  uh 
 stepping  stones  but  I  think  it's  going 
 to  make  a  very  cool  pathway  once  that 
 green  is  defined  here  all  right  so  now 
 we  drop  down  from  the  height  that's  here 
 down  to  the  song  of  IND  India  these  song 
 of  India  are  going  to  get  thick  and 
 chunky  and  really  collect  as  a  nice  kind 
 of  swath  going  this  way  and  you  can  kind 
 of  see  the  curvature  that  I'm  trying  to 
 create  here  so  it's  going  to  curve  like 
 this  and  then  open  up  like  that  towards 
 their  walkway  section  so  that's  going  to 
 be  really  really  cool  when  that  happens 
 and  you  guys  can  see  that  they've  got 
 some  spotted  weed  this  was  an 
 aggressively  weedy  area  during 
 construction  so  they're  going  to  have  to 
 really  kind  of  stay  on  top  of  this  for 
 the  first  year  to  spot  treat  and  since 
 they  don't  live  here  full-time  is 
 something  that  they're  going  to  be 
 working  on  for  the  first  year  to  kind  of 
 get  rid  of  these  topper  weeds  that  are 
 here  but  so  right  here  I  love  that  this 
 bed  curves  out  and  pops  out  because  this 
 is  a  view  line  that  you  get  from  the 
 driveway  but  it's  also  something  you  see 
 through  from  inside  the  walkway  leaving 
 so  I  definitely  wanted  something  like 
 the  fal  Agave  that  is  going  to  come  into 
 this  range  here  these  guys  will  get  5 
 foot  and  become  a  nice  focal  point  like 
 almost  like  a  crown  to  the  bed  so  it'll 
 kind  of  come  up  and  really  become  that 
 very  cool  dram  itic  accent  but  you  can 
 see  that  it's  pretty  far  away  from  the 
 walkway  or  anything  that's  you  know 
 going  to  cause  any  of  these  points  to 
 touch  or  hit  anybody  and  I  I  don't  know 
 if  most  some  of  you  guys  know  this  but 
 on  the  fals  Agave  they  don't  have  the 
 thorns  on  the  outside  they  have  a  nice 
 slick  area  you  can  run  your  hand  on  the 
 only  area  that  has  a  little  bit  of  the 
 point  is  this  and  it's  still  a  much  more 
 subtle  Point  than  like  the  like  the  blue 
 agave  or  some  of  the  other  Agave  that 
 have  a  very  sharp  edge  and  you  can  clip 
 these  points  off  without  any  damage  done 
 to  the  plants  so  say  you've  got  little 
 ones  and  that's  just  kind  of  a 
 maintenance  thing  on  every  new  one  you 
 want  to  clip  these  off  so  and  what  I 
 love  about  these  is  you  only  trim  them 
 about  three  times  a  year  so  you  trim  any 
 of  the  lower  ones  that  start  touching 
 the  ground  you  put  your  foot  down  and 
 you  slice  voila  that's  it  I  know  they 
 seem  intimidating  but  they  are  so  worth 
 that  little  bit  of  effort  in  the  garden 
 because  as  they  open  up  and  Branch  out 
 it's  like  they  have  something  there's 
 something  strong  and  something  very 
 dramatic  in  the  garden  and  then  you  can 
 soften  it  with  something  like  these 
 little  blue  my  Minds  that  we  have  down 
 below  so  just  a  little  swath  of  a  a 
 ground  cover  down  below  letting  this  guy 
 be  the  showstopper  and  then  we're  going 
 to  move  our  way  up  the  garden  with  this 
 blast  of  red  now  as  these  guys  mature 
 they're  going  to  really  fill  in  this 
 area  these  are  mamy  croin  now  mam  crotin 
 can  handle  full  sun  but  they  love  this 
 environment  they  do  to  me  they  do  the 
 very  best  in  this  this  situation  where 
 they  get  early  morning  midday  Sun  but  by 
 late  after  afternoon  they  start  getting 
 this  canopy  coverage  that  really  does  a 
 good  job  of  softening  them  now  this 
 property  has  some  surrounding  a  palm  so 
 that  also  offers  a  little  bit  of  canopy 
 shade  but  they  really  like  it  they  keep 
 their  color  really  true  and  really  dark 
 if  they  don't  get  any  more  than  about  7 
 hours  of  Sun  I  know  that  still  seems 
 like  a  lot  of  sun  but  it's  those  late 
 hours  those  four  five  6  7even  that  time 
 frame  in  our  sunny  Florida  climate  that 
 kind  of  makes  them  really  dull  out  and 
 you  know  so  in  this  environment  they  do 
 fabulous  right  here  now  this  is  the 
 backing  to  the  centerpiece  Tree  on  this 
 island  so  right  above  me  is  a  triple  fox 
 tail  pal  and  then  right  below  me  is  a 
 nice  clustering  of  these  beautiful  anti 
 I  love  these  guys  you  guys  know  that  I 
 put  them  in  so  many  Gardens  I  love  them 
 as  backdrops  kind  of  make  them  a  lush 
 lily  as  a  big  grouping  CU  they  make  a 
 dramatic  pop  in  one  area  this  is 
 something  you  see  clearly  from  across 
 the  pool  area  because  that  darkening 
 around  the  base  of  a  palm  tree  it  not 
 only  brings  attention  to  these  colorful 
 leaves  but  it  also  brings  attention  to 
 the  trunks  making  the  trunks  more 
 interesting  on  on  these  uh  palm  trees  so 
 so  antio  they  love  the  protection  of 
 what  this  tree  is  offering  so  filtered 
 light  ideal  so  they  can  handle  full  sun 
 but  they  do  the  very  best  with  a  little 
 protection  so  that's  why  you'll  notice 
 often  I  plant  them  underneath  palm  trees 
 for  that  e  extra  added  bit  of  umbrella 
 kind  of  for  them  so  they're  so  so  fun 
 and  then  to  the  back  side 
 here  we  continued  with  some  sloppy 
 painters  some  foxtail  Ferns  and  we'll 
 get  to  the  front  side  of  this  bed  in  a 
 moment  and  see  how  that  continues  with 
 the  same  light  and  Darks  of  colorations 
 through  these  beds  but  this  particular 
 area  was  a  bit  tricky  um  because  there 
 was  such  an  elevation  pitch  I  don't  know 
 if  it's  going  to  come  across  on  camera 
 but  that  elevation  on  this  little 
 rounded  patio  was  so  significant  that  it 
 was  like  when  I  was  looking  at  it  even 
 to  design  it  I  was  trying  to  figure  out 
 how  to  layer  up  to  it  without  changing 
 so  to  the  grade  without  having  to  put  a 
 retaining  wall  in  here  and  causing  my 
 clients  more  expense  so  what  we  did  is 
 obviously  we  packed  in  some  soil  around 
 there  and  it's  just  started  the  grade 
 pitch  with  planting  so  it  really  did  a 
 good  job  of  camouflaging  that  high  pitch 
 that  the  builder  left  them  with  so 
 flanking  the  the  centerpiece  tree  the 
 centerpiece  fox  tail  we  have  two  King 
 Alexanders  and  if  you  guys  are  looking 
 to  kind  of  create  a  palm  tree  type  of 
 look  when  you  can  use  some  of  the  same 
 plant  or  same  tree  material  and  just 
 different  heights  and  and  single  Trunks 
 and  triple  Trunks  and  double  trunks  that 
 gives  such  a  good  variation  you'd  be 
 surprised  that  how  much  that  changes 
 things  up  but  still  keeps  the  same  theme 
 so  starting  with  a  royal  then  a  King 
 Alexander  then  two  single  Alexanders  and 
 then  a  double  fox  tail  Palm  kind  of 
 gives  you  a  nice  variation  in  just  a 
 handful  of  trees  here  and  allows  us  to 
 kind  of  create  curvature  all  the  way 
 around  them  I  know  a  lot  of  people  think 
 when  they're  doing  their  Gardens  that  I 
 don't  necessarily  need  a  bunch  of  palms 
 or  you  know  a  bunch  of  accent  trees  in 
 my  space  I  kind  of  just  want  color  and 
 lushness  and  fullness  and  that  you  know 
 that  tropical  feel  and  that  can  be  done 
 definitely  but  I'm  telling  you  it  it 
 just  kind  of  comes  together  so  much 
 nicer  when  you  can  change  different 
 levels  in  the  garden  with  palm  trees 
 because  not  only  does  it  give  you  a 
 variation  of  of  heights  to  your  eye  kind 
 of  giving  you  that  jungle  Vibe  but  it 
 also  provides  that  extra  protection  for 
 the  plants  underneath  of  them  so  that 
 way  you  can  kind  of  create  a  completely 
 different  microclimate  than  you  may  have 
 had  there  originally  opening  you  up  to 
 some  of  the  coolest  Tropicals  because 
 you  have  trees  in  place  to  create  that 
 Shades  so  just  keep  that  in  mind  in  your 
 planning  stage  so  now  we're  on  the 
 inside  of  that  little  fire  pit  Nook  area 
 that  we  were  just  looking  at  on  the 
 outside  and  you  can  kind  of  see  how  that 
 we  are  framing  a  circular  patio  by 
 taking  away  some  of  the  harsh  corners 
 and  widening  the  circle  out  so  what  you 
 don't  want  to  do  is  you  don't  want  to 
 overemphasize  a  circular  bed  by  kind  of 
 keeping  that  same  pattern  kind  of  want 
 to  pop  those  Corners  out  the  most  that 
 you  can  without  you  know  going  crazy  but 
 kind  of  looping  them  out  to  just  kind  of 
 soften  the  the  real  roundness  of  this 
 particular  patio  so  we  have  the  um  the 
 double  the  the  two  singles  and  then 
 might  be  hard  to  see  from  over  there  but 
 we've  got  two  nice  fals  agave  and  then 
 we've  got  some  dark  tones  of  the  Ruby 
 Reds  and  the  golden  Dews 
 here  a  little  touch  of  my  favorite 
 little  fuzzy  Fern  which  is  thex  tail 
 Fern  here  and  then  a  touch  of  Blaze 
 copper  leaf  as  we  wrap  this  corner  and 
 then  sesia  coming  to  the  front  ending 
 with  blaze  copper  leaf  over  there  now  as 
 this  grows  in  these  plants  are  going  to 
 be  that  four  4  and  1/2t  height  range  so 
 right  along  this  Edge  that  edge  or  that 
 that  elevation  pitch  is  going  to 
 completely  disappear  and  really  give  it 
 kind  of  a  a  nice  nestled  feeling  with 
 those  plants  kind  of  just  tipping  out 
 over  the  tops  of  the  um  of  the  p  FL  so 
 kind  of  softening  what  is  a  very  white 
 bright  light  kind  of  coloring  so  you'll 
 notice  that  I  did  highlights  of  yellows 
 but  I  brought  in  more  deep  tones  than  I 
 normally  do  because  I  do  feel  like  when 
 you're  looking  at  the  whole  landscape  as 
 one  having  those  deep  tones  did  a  good 
 job  of  softening  and  and  taking  away 
 some  of  the  some  of  the  glare  that  you 
 get  from  using  lighter  structures  like 
 the  white  pergula  the  white  pavers  um  so 
 you  guys  will  have  to  let  me  know  what 
 your  thoughts  are  on  that  but  let's  move 
 on  to  the  last  two  beds  over  here 
 I  mean  doesn't  this  look  like  a  resort 
 to  you  guys  it's  just  absolutely 
 stunning  I  en  I  enjoy  spending  time  here 
 I  think  I  just  come  just  to  hang  out  for 
 a  little  while  but  um  so  back  here  we 
 have  a  beautiful  island  that  that  is  the 
 backdrop  to  this  pergola  structure  now 
 this  pergola  structure  I'm  going  to 
 stand  underneath  of  it  just  to  give  you 
 kind  of  a  point  of  point  of  reference  on 
 height  but  this  guy  is  absolutely  huge 
 and  it's  definitely  the  first  thing  that 
 you  see  these  three  structures  when  you 
 come  up  to  this  back  area  now  when  I 
 first  got  here  the  brightness  and  the 
 and  the  height  of  this  was  is  could  be 
 intimidating  that's  why  I'm  so  glad  that 
 my  clients  were  on  board  with  bringing 
 in  some  big  tree  material  to  kind  of 
 kind  of  help  balance  that  out  to  kind  of 
 help  give  more  of  a  softer  roof  line  to 
 these  bright  um  bright  white  U  roof 
 lines  so  now  this  isn't  on  I  wish  it  was 
 so  you  guys  could  see  but  this  is  a  rain 
 Fountain  here  you  guys  know  know  how 
 much  I  love  the  sound  of  water  but  this 
 kind  of  comes  down  and  water  just 
 plummets  down  into  the  pool  and  it's 
 just  absolutely  gorgeous  um  we'll  have 
 to  see  if  I  can  find  a  picture  or  a 
 video  of  that  um  from  a  previous  um  time 
 visiting  here  but  anyway  so  now  let's 
 get  over  to  the  bed  maybe  that'll  help 
 balance  out  why  we  have  so  many  trees  in 
 one  particular  area  so  I've  got  four 
 Royal  Palms  because  when  you're  looking 
 at  this  front  entrance  coming  this  way 
 having  this  grandness  having  the 
 structure  to  the  back  really  makes  such 
 a  such  a  nice  kind  of  softened  wall  and 
 makes  sure  that  this  that  you're  seeing 
 isn't  the  biggest  thing  in  the  garden 
 these  Royal  Palms  as  you  guys  know  what 
 Royal  Palms  do  we're  in  Palm  Beach 
 Florida  Royal  Palms  are  everywhere  and 
 they're  grandness  their  bigness  of 
 having  them  towards  the  back  of  the  U 
 planting  bed  is  just  going  to  be  a  a 
 Walla  feature  as  they  open  up  and  mature 
 out  and  become  what  they're  meant  to 
 become  in  this  in  this  Garden  but  to 
 give  these  Royal  Palms  kind  of  some 
 variation  in  height  we  have  a  triple  fox 
 tail  palm  and  we've  wrapped  it  with 
 triple  pyate  Palms  so  these  py8  Palms 
 here  have  become  like  the  perfect  wall 
 in  this  little  space  so  when  you  have 
 the  height  and  this  all  these  layers 
 having  something  that's  going  to  mature 
 out  to  around  10  to  12T  like  these 
 pigate  Palms  do  are  really  going  to  kind 
 of  give  us  like  a  soft  green  Whimsy  wall 
 back  here  that  almost  looks  like  a  the 
 perfect  perfect  under  canopy  planting  to 
 Big  fronds  above  it  so  I  think  they're 
 going  to  grow  in  really  nice  offer  some 
 seclusion  to  the  wide  openness  of  that 
 pergula  and  um  just  kind  of  um  again 
 Nestle  the  space  together  so  that  way  it 
 doesn't  feel  like  it  comes  out  so  far 
 now  I  know  that  this  is  a  little  bit 
 different  than  the  type  of  gardens  that 
 I  normally  do  in  people's  backyards  um 
 most  of  my  clients  were  needing  some 
 grass  right  along  a  patio  and  we  push 
 those  beds  out  as  far  as  the  property 
 allows  us  to  push  out  and  I  still  love 
 designing  that  way  but  when  you're 
 working  with  specific  scenarios  like 
 this  where  we're  trying  to  either  soften 
 a  deck  or  you  know  change  the  roundness 
 or  change  the  structure  size  of 
 something  or  kind  of  um  kind  of  create 
 some  height  and  some  variation  for 
 softenings  some  pergula  things  like  that 
 we  need  to  kind  of  push  things  forward 
 to  kind  of  give  us  more  of  a  wall  feel 
 of  frond  so  that's  the  reason  why  these 
 beds  are  quite  a  bit  closer  to  back 
 poool  areas  than  they  than  they  are 
 normally  in  a  lot  of  my  landscape  so  I 
 hope  that  makes  sense  so  if  those  of 
 those  of  you  guys  are  in  a  similar 
 situation  don't  feel  like  you  have  to 
 push  everything  to  the  back  just  because 
 you  see  that  in  so  many  gardening 
 channels  I  think  that  that  has  its 
 appropriate  place  but  so  is  this  so  I 
 hope  that  I  hope  that  makes  sense  so  in 
 this  bed  down  below  we  kept  with  the 
 same  theme  that  way  maintenance  is  super 
 easy  we  have  the  blue  my  Minds  right  at 
 the  tips  we  have  these  fun  fun  fun  songs 
 of  India  which  I  love  and  can't  wait 
 till  they  become  this  height  and 
 absolutely  stunning  and  gorgeous  and 
 then  the  ice  tone  croin  which  I  love  now 
 the  ice  Tone  croin  If  you  guys  remember 
 from  the  last  video  the  ice  tone  croin 
 can't  handle  full  sun  environments  like 
 we  have  over  on  that  side  but  with  all 
 of  these  fronds  you  can  kind  of  see  I'm 
 in  the  shadow  here  I'm  in  the  shade  and 
 it's  way  cooler  which  is  why  I'm  camping 
 out  here  talking  longer  than  I  was  in 
 any  other  part  of  the  video  so  this  is  a 
 cozy  spot  for  them  so  if  you  guys  have 
 an  environment  with  filtered  light  and 
 you  love  the  colorations  of  these 
 because  they  will  continue  to  give  you 
 that  bright  pink  mauve  um  yellow  tone 
 with  little  tips  of  brown  on  or  little 
 tips  of  black  on  the  edges  than  ice  tone 
 croin  are  for  you  guys  and  they  stay 
 this  chunked  out  kind  of  look  which  I 
 love  love  love  so  to  the  back  we  have 
 some  Jaba  white  copper  leaves  and  on  the 
 corners  it  tear  down  with  some  dwarf 
 exora  I  love  my  dwarf  Taiwanese  exor 
 they're  going  to  give  a  blast  of  orange 
 red  color  on  the  corners  and  also  not 
 competing  with  the  false  agave  that  you 
 see  there  they're  always  going  to  be 
 able  to  stay  and  be  kept  into  that  twot 
 range  now  I  I  wanted  specifically  to 
 come  in  on  this  garden  and  share  with 
 you  guys  what  um  what  it  looks  like 
 before  maintenance  what  it  looks  like 
 before  we've  kind  of  had  a  chance  to  get 
 in  here  in  shade  because  so  many  times 
 we've  done  maintenance  right  before 
 we've  done  a  garden  tour  and  it's  really 
 hard  to  tell  kind  of  tell  how  to  do  a 
 maintenance  trim  on  things  but  you  kind 
 of  see  how  this  plant  is  really  starting 
 starting  to  kind  of  Branch  out  into  this 
 plant  here  so  as  these  start  to  connect 
 and  grow  together  all  we're  going  to  do 
 is  when  we  come  here  and  do  a  kind  of  a 
 a  clip  for  them  we're  going  to  come  a 
 couple  times  a  year  so  we  can  help  them 
 with  maintenance  since  they  don't  live 
 here  full-time  we're  just  going  to  take 
 this  and  completely  take  those  tops  off 
 and  I'm  talking  just  maybe  six  to  8 
 inches  off  the  top  and  a  little  off  the 
 sides  to  let  it  chunk  out  and  widen  out 
 the  idea  is  for  it  to  chunk  out  and 
 widen  out  and  start  connecting  with  it 
 with  its  neighbor  plant  two  and  a  half 
 to  three  foot  away  from  each  other  so 
 you  kind  of  want  to  take  those  tops  off 
 let  them  flush  out  in  the  middle  and 
 then  really  start  to  widen  out  looking 
 for  the  neighboring  connected  plant  so 
 this  is  a  sea  of  red  of  maybe  two  two 
 and  1/2  you  can  you  can  let  these  guys 
 get  to  three  foot  but  two  and  2  and  1/2 
 foot  is  the  ideal  size  to  be  the  under 
 planting  for  this  fals  Agave  until  this 
 FAL  Agave  reaches  its  height  of  here 
 then  you  can  let  it  get  to  3  foot  at  the 
 bottom  and  let  this  plant  be  very 
 vertical  now  this  is  almost  like  a  box 
 wood  so  this  you  keep  very  tight  very 
 tidy  very  clean  very  easy  to  do  that 
 because  they  grow  so  darn  slow  so  just 
 kind  of  keep  the  those  tops  tipped  and 
 the  sides  tipped  on  those  and  then  you 
 know  you're  golden  so  that's  pretty  much 
 all  the  Care  that  needs  now  on  things 
 like  the  Java  white  copper  leaves  like 
 you  see  here  in  the  back  I  obviously 
 couldn't  put  a  cluster  of  Jaba  white 
 copper  leaves  right  here  because  we 
 don't  want  the  bed  to  end  with  height  or 
 like  a  wall  we  kind  of  want  everything 
 to  tear  down  as  you  get  here  and  then 
 tear  up  as  you  get  to  the  back  of  the 
 bed  and  that's  what  we're  looking  at 
 here 
 so  the  size  of  these  guys  they're 
 flushing  out  becoming  nice  and  big  but 
 definitely  need  a  haircut  so  it's  time 
 to  take  about  two  foot  off  of  these  guys 
 because  right  now  they're  putting  all 
 that  energy  to  flush  out  at  the  top  and 
 not  at  the  sides  we  needed  to  come  out 
 here  not  here  so  we're  going  to  take  two 
 foot  off  the  top  of  this  you  can  see  the 
 growth  is  wanting  to  come  out  on  the 
 sides  but  all  of  the  energy  is  coming 
 out  to  the  topped  you  do  that  four  times 
 a  year  I  promise  you  you're  going  to 
 have  the  prettiest  collection  of  copper 
 leaes  ever  you  know  copper  leaves  are 
 going  to  be  on  the  higher  end  of 
 Maintenance  copper  leaes  and  kusas  and 
 those  fast  growing  plants  things  like 
 dwarf  exor  blue  my  mindes  even  song  of 
 India  croin  those  are  going  to  be  on  the 
 lower  end  of  Maintenance  so  they're  easy 
 to  keep  internal  or  inside  where  they're 
 um  near  accent  features  like  pyate  palms 
 and  agave  and  things  like  that  because 
 you  don't  have  to  kind  of  always  keep 
 maintaining  those  but  back  here  where 
 they  can  get  a  little  wild  and  crazy 
 it's  a  little  easier  to  let  them  get  a 
 little  crazy  if  you  miss  a  trimming 
 cycle  or  two  so  so  yeah  definitely  time 
 to  hit  those  guys  to  the  back  here  we 
 have  Blaze  copper  leaf  and  they're  doing 
 a  great  job  of  coming  starting  to 
 connect  together  so  they  need  a  little 
 bit  of  a  nip  tuck  and  kind  of  see  how 
 they're  starting  to  connect  into  this 
 plant  here  so  this  needs  to  come  down 
 about  a  foot  to  really  do  that  and  start 
 to  pop  out  this  way  and  then  these  will 
 connect  and  become  a  solid  grouping  at 
 once  they're  connected  about  a  year  in 
 then  you're  not  going  to  see  this  this 
 mulch  bed  at  all  it's  really  going  to  be 
 a  nice  solid  group  be  it's  I  think  it's 
 already  starting  to  come  together  so 
 y'all  Bryce  had  a  great  idea  he 
 mentioned  why  don't  I  kind  of  do  a 
 layout  explaining  exactly  the  plants 
 that  we  chose  for  this  area  and  then 
 he's  going  to  do  an  aerial  view  or  a 
 bird's  eye  view  of  what  this  bed  looks 
 like  in  reality  so  you  can  see  it  all  in 
 one  that  way  if  you're  looking  to 
 recreate  then  screenshot  that  bad  boy 
 and  then  you  can  kind  of  work  with  that 
 within  your  garden  so  let's  start  with 
 the  very  front  layer  the  ground  cover  so 
 right  here  we  have  the  blue  my  Minds 
 right  at  the  front  tip  we  have  a  nice 
 little  clustering  of  those  and  then  on 
 either  right  to  the  back  kind  of  in  a 
 half  moon  shape  we've  got  the  songs  of 
 India  curving  around  the  blue  my  mindes 
 and  then  we've  got  two  false  agave  right 
 at  the  edge  really  kind  of  giving  us 
 those  anchors  and  at  the  far  ends  we 
 have  dwarf  exor  dwarf  Taiwanese  exor 
 where  the  bed  starts  to  tear  down  a 
 little  bit  then  as  we  move  to  the  back 
 we've  got  Petra  cottin  just  a  little 
 clustering  of  three  and  three  flanking 
 our  pyate  palms  and  our  pyate  palms  we 
 have  three  around  the  centerpiece  tree 
 which  is  the  D  excuse  me  the  triple  fox 
 tail  palm  and  then  framing  that  entirely 
 are  the  four  Royal  Palms  those  are  kind 
 of  in  a  a  rounded  formation  around  the 
 centerpiece  tree  kind  of  giv  that 
 centerpiece  tree  that  just  that  Crown 
 effect  and  then  towards  the  rear  Corners 
 just  to  brighten  things  off  we've  got  a 
 little  clustering  of  java  white  copper 
 leaves  on  either  end  and  in  the  middle 
 we've  darkened  it  with  the  blaze  copper 
 leaf  in  the  middle  so  that  kind  of  gives 
 you  that  whole  structure  of  this  bed  so 
 in  total  I  hope  that  helps  you  guys  if 
 if  this  is  something  that  is  is  helpful 
 to  you  for  you  to  see  as  I'm  walking 
 through  the  gardens  and  talking  about 
 the  plants  and  trees  and  seeing  that  in 
 a  bird's  eye  view  for  for  specific 
 things  then  please  leave  it  in  the 
 comments  down  below  and  we'll  try  to 
 tackle  that  in  some  of  these  videos  and 
 hope  that  might  help  kind  of  give  you 
 more  of  a  realistic  image  looking 
 straight  at  the  overall  picture  but  now 
 we're  going  to  touch  on  the  very  last 
 bed  in  this  design  and  that  is  right 
 behind  the  kitchen  area  this  is  a  very 
 small  bed  and  it  just  just  continues  on 
 with  the  color  palettes  that  we  have 
 going  on  in  the  in  the  other  two 
 sections  you  can  see  we  have  quite  an 
 elevation  pitch  here  as  it  drops  down  so 
 we  wanted  height  so  these  tie  quarter 
 lines  to  the  back  are  already  a  good 
 size  but  I  told  the  clients  we're  going 
 to  let  these  guys  get  8  to  10  foot  as 
 our  backdrop  plants  here 
 these  Jaba  white  copper  leaf  are  far  too 
 big  for  this  spot  right  now  I'm  going  to 
 take  them  down  when  we  come  to  do  our 
 maintenance  about  2  foot  maybe  two  and  a 
 half  on  these  cuz  it's  been  a  little 
 while  since  they've  been  trimmed  they 
 came  we  brought  them  in  at  10  gallon 
 size  cuz  they  really  wanted  some  height 
 pretty  instantaneously  here  we've  got 
 some  fire  spikes  right  here  on  the 
 corner  and  then  just  a  little  bit  we've 
 got  two  um  and  I  know  they're  not  in 
 bloom  almost  like  a  big  cone  flower  so 
 they're  going  to  really  fill  in  this 
 area  and  all  of  this  is  going  to  climb 
 the  trunk  of  the  tree  that's  why  this 
 fox  tail  Palm  has  to  be  so  big  because  I 
 knew  that  this  plant  grouping  is  going 
 to  be  substantial  in  size  cuz  this  deck 
 is  quite  high  so  it  really  we  really 
 needed  to  match  the  elevation  pitch  so 
 we're  going  to  let  it  crawl  right  up 
 that  big  16  17t  palm  tree  and  get  some 
 size  to  it  dapple  just  a  little  bit  of 
 these  Burly  marks  to  the  front  to  kind 
 of  keep  the  control  and  then  three  fox 
 tail  ferns  in  the  front  just  to  give  a 
 little  bit  of  a  fuzzy  character  so  so 
 that  kind  of  does  it  for  this  island 
 this  is  a  big  space  you  guys  and  I  I 
 know  that  it  feels  like  a  lot  of 
 landscaping  but  in  in  overall  it's  only 
 three  three  good  siiz  beds  back  here  we 
 didn't  take  it  and  run  the  whole  patio 
 all  the  way  around  we  kind  of  hit  Hots 
 spot  areas  that  really  matter  the  area 
 behind  the  grill  the  backdrop  to  the 
 grill  I  think  is  ideal  also  we  had  the 
 weight  of  the  pulas  over  here  so  having 
 some  beds  on  both  sides  of  this  pergula 
 was  important  the  same  with  this  giant 
 perula  that's  here  we  needed  back  drop 
 to  that  which  this  bed  does  that  so 
 obviously  the  front  entrance  and  around 
 that  curved  fire  pit  area  needed  some 
 attention  so  we  didn't  take  it  and  put 
 hot  spots  of  plantings  everywhere  we 
 kind  of  really  focused  in  on  what  was 
 the  most  important  space  the  next  space 
 I  cannot  wait  to  get  a  hold  of  because 
 to  me  it  is  already  started  we've  got 
 you  know  a  nice  clustering  of  Chinese 
 fan  palms  and  a  Palms  here  needs  a 
 little  bit  of  a  cleanup  but  in  time  I 
 think  having  quarterline  colors  down 
 below  peeking  up  over  top  of  this  deck 
 is  going  to  be  just  stunning  and  then 
 tie  in  all  of  those  bright  tones  all  the 
 way  around  so  I  cannot  wait  to  see  that 
 will  be  the  next  phase  for  my  clients 
 and  I  think  that  that's  just  going  to  be 
 stunning  and  kind  of  finish  off  this 
 backyard  Resort  Gardens  all  right  you 
 guys  so  that  does  it  for  today's  video  I 
 hope  you  enjoyed  taking  this  tour  around 
 this  Resort  backyard  with  me  and  got 
 some  information  from  it  if  there  was 
 anything  that  I  touched  on  in  this  video 
 that  maybe  led  to  more  questions  then 
 please  stick  them  down  in  the  comments 
 down  below  i'  be  happy  to  answer  them 
 for  you  if  you  guys  enjoy  this  kind  of 
 content  then  please  like  subscribe  we 
 post  a  video  every  single  weekend  and  we 
 will  be  in  your  feed  if  you  hit  that 
 little  notification  Bell  if  you  enjoyed 
 today's  Garden  Tour  then  you  might  enjoy 
 our  last  weekend's  Garden  Tour  go  check 
 that  out  that  was  turning  a  basic 
 backyard  into  something  magical  I  can't 
 remember  the  title  but  it's  right  here 
 Bryce  will  post  it  for  you  and  I  will 
 see  you  guys  next  weekend  take  care

---

 So,  happy  spring  gardeners.  Today's 
 video  is  all  about  what  to  do  in  your 
 garden  during  the  springtime.  So,  as  you 
 guys  know,  I'm  an  extensive  gardener.  I 
 do  gardens  not  just  for  myself,  but  for, 
 you  know,  so  many  others  as  a  landscape 
 designer.  There's  just  things  that  I 
 stick  to  this  time  of  the  year  that 
 become  habit  and  then  become  tradition. 
 So,  I  thought  today  I  would  share  both 
 of  those  with  you  guys  and  and  I  hope 
 you  enjoy  it.  I  hope  you  enjoy  these 
 tidbits.  But  for  those  of  you  guys  who 
 do  not  know  me,  my  name  is  Jennifer 
 Bevans  or  your  true  gardener  and  I  am  a 
 landscape  designer  for  now  over  25  years 
 and  I  specialize  in  creating  outdoor 
 spaces  kind  of  like  the  outdoor  spaces 
 that  you  see  here.  So  this  channel  is 
 all  about  sharing  those  projects  that  we 
 do  with  our  clients  so  that  way  you  guys 
 have  some  really  good  insight  on  what  we 
 create  as  far  as  gardens  throughout  the 
 treasure  and  space  coast.  We  do  have  a 
 service  that  we  do  installation  and 
 design  and  we  have  a  service  that  we  do 
 design  for  outside  our  installation 
 field  and  then  we  do  have  a  virtual 
 service  for  you  guys  who  are  looking  for 
 consultations,  virtual  consultations  for 
 just,  you  know,  some  tidbit  points  and 
 whatnot.  So,  send  us  an  email  with  your 
 phone  number.  Marissa  is  my 
 daughter-in-law.  We  are  a  family-owned 
 business  and  she  will  gather  all  that 
 information  and  see  if  we're  just  going 
 to  be  a  good  fit  for  you  guys.  But 
 that's  enough  of  that.  So  like  and 
 subscribe  if  this  is  the  kind  of  vibe 
 that  you  like  to  watch  every  single 
 weekend.  We  talk  about  plants,  trees, 
 gardens,  how  to  do  this,  how  to  do  that, 
 anything  outdoors  in  Florida 
 landscaping.  This  might  be  the  channel 
 for  you.  All right,  you  guys.  So  for  tip 
 number  one,  it  is  trimming.  So  we  are  in 
 the  perfect  climate  for  getting  a  good 
 trim  on  things.  So  normally  when  I  do  my 
 trimming  cycle,  it  is  the  last  week  of 
 March,  maybe  the  first  week  of  April.  We 
 trimmed  a  little  bit  early  this  year 
 because  of  Bryce  and  Rissa's  wedding. 
 But  normally  I  like  to  hold  off  to  make 
 sure  that  all  of  the  winter  chill  is 
 gone  and  we're  like  really  really  coming 
 into  spring.  But  I  wanted  to  show  you 
 this  area  in  particular  because  it  it's 
 really  I  know  it's  looking  bold.  I  know 
 those  of  you  guys  who  are  true  gardeners 
 and  watch  this  channel  religiously  know 
 what  these  Sancheesio  look  like.  They're 
 usually  engulfed  in  this  space  even 
 falling  over  into  the  rock  way  and 
 that's  how  I  keep  them  most  of  the  year. 
 But  spring,  spring  is  when  they  know 
 they're  getting  the  ugly  bang  haircut. 
 They're  getting  cut  back.  They're 
 getting  separated.  They're  really, 
 really  getting  that  area  that  they  need 
 to  really  flush  out  and  kind  of  create 
 that  whole  new  year's  worth  of  growth. 
 What  I  normally  do  is  I  take  a  couple 
 foot  off  the  top  of  my  sanchesia  and 
 then  I  separate  the  plant  groupings 
 themselves  because  they  naturally  want 
 to  group  together.  And  that  happens  with 
 90%  of  our  tropicals,  our  our  Sanchezia, 
 our  copper  leaves,  our  croins,  whatnot, 
 they  all  kind  of  want  to  interconnect 
 and  that's  what  makes  them  super  strong. 
 But  in  order  to  kind  of  keep  them 
 pestfree  and  kind  of  come  in  with  that 
 beautiful  new  growth  that  they  happen 
 that  happens  every  year,  this  is  an 
 ideal  time  to  do  it.  It's  not  It's  early 
 enough  where  they're  not  getting  the 
 heat  of  the  season,  but  it's  that  time 
 frame  where  they're  getting  ready  to  get 
 a  lot  of  good  rain  and  a  lot  of  good 
 heat.  So,  they're  going  to  grow  in  in  no 
 time.  So,  I'm  going  to  lose  very,  very 
 little  time  of  them  being  their 
 beautiful  cells.  The  next  thing  that  I 
 do  in  this  area  now  that  we  have  a  good 
 cutback,  I  make  sure  to  kind  of  peel 
 back  some  of  the  top  coating  of  the 
 mulch.  You  know,  just  the  top  layer.  So, 
 I'll  rake  that  out  and  kind  of  get  that 
 cleaned  off  so  that  way  I'm  not  piling 
 mulch  on  top  of  mulch.  I  know  mulch 
 decomposes,  but  sometimes  you'll  still 
 have  that  residue  from  last  year's  mulch 
 and  you'll  kind  of  get  that  off  the 
 plant  grouping  and  then  just  kind  of 
 leave  yourself  a  really  really  good 
 clean  slate.  And  this  is  the  perfect 
 time  to  do  that  because  there's  all 
 these  openings.  There's  all  this  exposed 
 space  that  you  do  not  have  the  remainder 
 of  the  year.  This  is  the  only  time  of 
 the  year  that  you  really  get  that  open 
 sense  to  things  that  it  is  truly  helpful 
 for  the  plants  because  it  really 
 protects  them  against  pest  and  allows 
 air  to  get  to  the  inside  and  sun  to  get 
 to  the  inside  of  this  plant  like  it 
 wouldn't  if  you  had  it  full.  So,  my  next 
 tip  would  be  fertilizing.  You  guys  know 
 I  love  8212  palm  gain.  I  use  it  through 
 my  whole  garden.  I  fill  it  into  this  mop 
 bucket  that  I  have  here  and  just  kind  of 
 chicken  feed  it  through  my  yard.  So,  now 
 that  I  have  all  these  open  spaces  that 
 I've  made  when  I've  done  my  trimming, 
 all  I  do  is  take  in  those  open  spaces 
 and  just  flood  it  with  some  fertilizer 
 through  my  yard.  Now,  I  notice  after 
 fertilizing  that  the  springtime  plants 
 are  really  wanting  to  flush  out.  Their 
 blooms  are  coming  out,  that  growth  is 
 coming  out.  I'm  seeing  tons  of  new  green 
 foliage  everywhere.  And  so,  I  know  that 
 this  is  the  perfect  time  of  year  to  give 
 them  a  bit  of  assist.  you  know,  give 
 them  that  kind  of  vitamin  C  boost  that 
 we  all  kind  of  need.  They  really  love 
 that  in  the  springtime  because  as  soon 
 as  I  fertilize,  it's  almost  like  I  want 
 to  walk  out,  you  know,  every  morning 
 afterwards  and  just  see  who's  doing 
 what,  who's  showing  off,  who's  blooming, 
 who's  got  new  growth.  And  that's  exactly 
 what  happens  after  trimming  is  done, 
 after  fertilizing  done,  after  irrigating 
 more  often,  all  of  that.  Once  that  all 
 starts  to  happen,  it's  like  the  like  the 
 garden  starts  to  wake  up  and  just  kind 
 of  explode  with  new  growth  and  new 
 blooms.  So  to  me,  it's  such  a  rewarding 
 thing  to  do  when  I'm  fertilizing  that 
 spring  weekend  knowing  that  I'm  just 
 going  to  get  tons  and  tons  of  benefit 
 from  it.  So  our  next  spring  tip  is 
 mulching.  Now  that  everything  has  been 
 cleared  out,  there's  open  spaces  in 
 place  and  there's  fertilizer  that's 
 down.  This  is  a  perfect  time  to  do  a  top 
 coating  of  mulch  for  your  entire  garden. 
 Now,  one  of  the  main  reasons  that  I  love 
 mulching  during  this  time  of  the  year  is 
 because  we're  getting  ready  to  get  into 
 the  heat  of  the  season.  So,  you  guys 
 know  Florida,  it  gets  hot.  It  gets 
 crazy.  So,  protecting  your  plants  for 
 that  upcoming  heat  is  so  important.  So, 
 if  you  can  add  a  nice  layer  of  mulch, 
 some  of  it  will  break  down,  help  the 
 soil  conditioning  over  time,  but  the 
 majority  of  it  will  do  its  job,  which  is 
 hold  moisture.  So  instead  of  having  to 
 weigh  up  your  water  for  that  intense 
 heat,  you  can  add  a  nice  layer  of  mulch 
 and  it'll  help  keep  that  moisture  around 
 your  new  plantings,  keeping  them  thick, 
 lush,  and  hydrated.  So  mulching,  this  is 
 a  perfect  time  of  the  year  to  kind  of 
 get  in  there  in  between  those  plants  and 
 top  everything  off.  So,  for  the  next 
 tip,  now  that  you've  gotten  those  areas 
 cleaned  out,  you've  gotten  mulch,  you've 
 gotten  fertilizer,  you've  done  your  due 
 diligence  of  getting  things  kind  of 
 prepped  and  ready  in  the  garden,  now 
 it's  time  to  take  a  look  around,  kind  of 
 see  what  maybe  didn't  handle  the  winter 
 months  really  well  or  kind  of  what  what 
 bare  spots  you  have  in  the  garden.  Those 
 are  my  favorite  times  because  I  look 
 around  and  I'm  like,  you  know what,  I 
 could  use  a  little bit  more  of  this  or  a 
 little  bit  more  of  that  in  the  garden. 
 But  we're  early  enough  in  the  season  to 
 introduce  some  new  plants  before  it  gets 
 too  darn  hot  to  stress  them  out  like 
 crazy.  So,  this  is  the  time  of  the  year 
 that  I  do  these  lovely  ladies.  I  love  to 
 incorporate  my  epipites,  my  my  plants 
 that  love  to  grow  on  trees,  whether  it's 
 burmilads,  it's  orchids  like  you  see 
 here,  it's  bird's  nest  ferns,  it's 
 whatever  that  might  kind  of  add  some 
 interest  or  some  different  elements  into 
 the  garden.  My  potted  plants,  all  of 
 those  kind  of  things.  That's  what  I 
 incorporate  this  time  of  the  year.  And  I 
 love  these  orchids.  I  brought  in  nine 
 new  nine  I  know  I  I  go  a  little  crazy.  I 
 have  a  habit  issue  with  my  plants.  But  I 
 brought  in  nine  new  orchids  to  my 
 existing  orchids.  I  see  my  old  orchids 
 that  have  already  attached  to  the  tree. 
 Really  flushing  out  with  new  growth, 
 telling  me  like,  "Hello,  spring.  We  are 
 here."  And  so  bringing  in  a  few  extra  is 
 my  favorite  thing  to  do  this  time  of  the 
 year.  So  find  little  area,  little 
 sections  in  your  garden  that  you  know, 
 maybe  you  got  them  some  thin  spots, 
 maybe  you  got  some  quarter  lines  that 
 maybe  didn't  all  take  from  the 
 propagation,  maybe  just  kind  of  little 
 fill  in  little  areas.  Now  that  you  kind 
 of  have  everything  cleaned  up  and  it's 
 easily  accessible,  this  is  a  great  time 
 to  incorporate  a  cluster  planting. 
 you're  going  to  have  from  now  in  April 
 um  all  the  way  into  the  season  for  those 
 to  establish  and  get  healthy  and  get 
 strong  before  we  get  to  the  heat  of  the 
 season  in  July,  September,  that  time 
 frame  where  it  can  be  tough.  And  then 
 you've  got  a  whole  season  before  winter 
 hits  again  for  them  to  get  really 
 established  and  get  strong.  So  go  ahead, 
 this  is  the  perfect  time  of  year  to 
 introduce  your  new  plants  without  any 
 kind  of  worry  during  those  other  times 
 of  the  year.  The  next  tip  is  run  and 
 check  your  irrigation  system.  So,  I 
 literally  set  my  calendar  to  this  time 
 of  the  year.  This  is  the  best  time  of 
 the  year  to  run  through  your  irrigation 
 system.  Whether  you  have  sprinklers  like 
 you  have  I  you  see  here  behind  me  or  you 
 have  the  6  to  8  to  10  in  or  12  in  popups 
 or  you  have  a  drip  line  system.  Those 
 are  all  perfect  times  just  to  make  sure 
 that  nothing  is  clogged.  Make  sure  that 
 everything  is  getting  good  adequate 
 water.  So,  even  in  my  drip  line  systems 
 that  I  have,  you  can  take  and  and  cut 
 off  that  one  section  and  plug  it  and  run 
 a  new  line  through  it  and  make  sure  that 
 you  just  flush  that  whole  line.  So, 
 whatever  might  be  in  there,  whatever 
 sediment  might  have  collected  throughout 
 the  year,  this  is  a  great  time  to  flush 
 that  system  out,  flush  that  whole  line 
 out  and  that  way  you're  good  to  go  for 
 the  year.  And  at least  you  know  that  you 
 don't  have  plants  and  trees  suffering, 
 especially  with  drip  lines.  Drip  lines 
 can  be  a  bit  challenging  because  you 
 kind  of  don't  know  something's  wrong 
 until  things  start  dying.  So  I  have  it 
 on  my  calendar.  April  when  I  do  my 
 trimming,  when  I  do  my  cleanup,  when  I 
 do  my  mulching,  when  I  do  my 
 fertilizing,  that  is  the  time  of  the 
 year  that  I  go  out  and  run  through  all 
 my  zones.  Make  sure  that  I  am  good  to 
 go.  Everything  is  getting  adequate 
 coverage.  So  I  am  not  waiting  until  I 
 see  distress  before  I  react.  So  all 
 right,  y'all.  For  today's  final  tip,  it 
 is  to  add  those  key  features  in  your 
 garden.  So  every  single  year,  every 
 single  spring,  I  don't  know  what  it  is. 
 It's  more  tradition  than  anything,  but  I 
 find  a  new  feature  or  two  or  three  to 
 incorporate  into  the  garden.  And  it's  I 
 don't  know if  I  do  it  beginning  of 
 spring  because  I  love  to  be  out  this 
 time  of  the  year  and  then  I  get  to  enjoy 
 it  all  year  long.  But  it  is  the  time  to 
 incorporate  something.  It  could  be 
 something  simple  like  we  have  this 
 little  trellis  at  the  end  of  our  garden. 
 I  am  going  to  put  some  bleeding  hearts 
 on  there  because  my  daughter-in-law 
 loves  bleeding  hearts.  So,  I  think  that 
 this  will  be  a  nice  finale  to  our  back 
 walkway  as  you  lead  into  this  area.  So, 
 we're  gonna  have  the  purple  and  red 
 bleeding  hearts  here.  And  then  I'm  gonna 
 incorporate  my  little  bird  houses.  I 
 just  think  they're  cute.  They're 
 charming.  They  were  inexpensive.  They're 
 a  nice  touch  and  just  a  little  kind  of 
 little  welcoming  spot.  Now,  every  single 
 year  I  bring  in  bird  houses  or  little 
 like  hummingbird  little  nests  like  this. 
 I  just  love  the  idea.  I  feel  like  I'm 
 just  making  little  Airbnbs  everywhere. 
 I've  got  them  popped  in  throughout  my 
 whole  garden.  I  will  continue  to  add 
 them.  I  imagine  when  I'm  80  years  old. 
 I'm  going  to  have  like  town  houses  of 
 birdhouses  throughout  my  whole  garden. 
 But  what  a  great  place  to  be  because  I 
 when  I  hear  them  in  the  mornings,  I 
 wonder  did  they  roost  there?  Did  they 
 stay  there?  Do  they  I  just  I  don't  know. 
 They  call  me  weird,  but  I  think  that's 
 charming.  This  year,  I  got  these.  I  got 
 the  trellis  and  I  got  a  really  cool 
 little  mermaid  bird  bath.  I'll  get  Bryce 
 to  pop  in  a  picture  here.  I  don't  know 
 where  I'm  going  to  put  her,  but  when  I 
 saw  her,  I  just  thought,  got  to  have 
 her.  Got  to  got  to  find  a  spot  for  her. 
 So,  and  I've  already  got  she's  not  even 
 in  her  proper  place,  and  I've  already 
 got  birds  bathing  in  her.  I  just  cannot 
 wait  to  get  a  clip  for  you  guys.  But  it 
 is  so  exciting.  So,  you  know,  adding 
 those  features  into  a  garden.  As  you 
 guys  know  that  I  work  with  clients  every 
 single  day  incorporating  my  my  design 
 style  into  their  spaces,  but  I  always 
 encourage  them  when  we're  done.  You 
 know,  I  know  we've  married  my  design 
 style,  their  design  style,  and  then 
 worked  with  things  and  plants  and  trees 
 that  work.  You  know,  that's  the  best 
 part  of  my  job,  but  I  always  tell  them, 
 and  I  know  Bryce  does  the  same  thing. 
 Now,  it's  time,  now  that  this  is  done, 
 now  it's  time  to  really  incorporate 
 those  perfect  features.  Whether  it's  a 
 handme-down  bench  that  you  want  to  you 
 you  want  to  incorporate  into  your  garden 
 or  that  cool  statue  or  something  you 
 found  off  marketplace,  what  whatever  it 
 might  be  that  has  your  personality,  that 
 has  that  touch  that  just  screams  to  you 
 or  makes  you  want  to  walk  out  into  the 
 garden,  incorporate  it  because  that's 
 exactly  what  it  does.  It  encourages  us 
 to  walk  out  into  our  gardens  and  see  if 
 there's  anything  nesting  in  that 
 birdhouse  or  see  if  there's,  you  know, 
 anything,  you  know,  you  taking  sips  out 
 of  that  bird  bath  or  bathing  in  it  or  or 
 whatever  the  thing  might  be.  But  it  just 
 draws  you  out  into  the  garden  and  that's 
 what  brings  a  garden  to  life.  It's  just 
 not  about  the  plants  and  the  trees  and 
 the  waterfalls  and  all  of  that.  It's 
 about  it's  it's  so  interactive.  So,  if 
 you  can  grab  what  you  like,  you  know, 
 find  things  that  really  speak  to  you, 
 incorporate  them  in  your  garden,  they 
 become  a  part  of  your  space.  They  become 
 something  that  you  talk  with  somebody  as 
 you're  walking  through  it.  And  I  just  I 
 don't  know.  I  just  think  that's 
 charming.  Call  me  a  romantic,  but  I  just 
 think  that  is  super  charming  to  add  into 
 your  garden.  So,  every  single  year  I  do 
 that.  I  will  tell  you,  just  as  a  side 
 note,  one  thing  I  am  going  to 
 incorporate  back  here  that  I  have  seen 
 other  gardeners  do  that  I  love.  I'm 
 going  to  find  a  cool  tropical  mailbox  on 
 Marketplace.  I've  been  looking.  I 
 haven't  found  just  the  right  one  just 
 yet,  but  I'm  going  to  find  one  and  pop 
 it  into  the  garden  somewhere  over  here 
 because  I  love  the  idea  of  being  able  to 
 put  my  tools  in  there.  As  I  walk  through 
 this,  I'm  usually  holding  a  cup  of 
 coffee  or  a  glass  of  wine.  No  judgment. 
 But  I'm  walking  through  here  and  um 
 there's  commonly,  as  gardeners  know,  a 
 brown  limb  or  this  or  that  needs  to  be 
 clipped  or  trimmed.  So,  last  thing  I 
 want  to  do  is  go  back  into  the  garage, 
 grab  it,  and  then  come  out  here  and  and 
 trim  that  off.  So  having  something 
 tucked  maybe  one  or  two  or  three 
 mailboxes  throughout  my  back  buffer 
 would  be  a  really  cool  thing  to  just  set 
 on  a  post  and  put  my  little  tools  in 
 there  and  just  adds  a  little  bit  of  um 
 interest  and  it  also  adds  functionality. 
 So  both  of  those  married  are  just 
 phenomenal  in  your  garden.  So  that 
 pretty  much  does  it  for  today's  video.  I 
 hope  those  tips  and  tricks  and  and  fun 
 little  thoughts  really  help  you  guys. 
 Please  list  anything  that  you  guys  do, 
 anything  that  you  find  helpful,  you 
 gardeners  find  helpful  out  there  for 
 other  gardeners  to  read  in  the  feed. 
 That  is  super  super  cool.  Please  comment 
 it  down  below  so  you  can  share  that  with 
 especially  new  Florida  gardeners.  You 
 existing  Florida  gardeners  like  me  know 
 how  tough  that  this  environment  can  be. 
 So,  you  know,  help  the  new  Floridaidians 
 out  in  creating  this  perfect  environment 
 for  themselves.  Thank  you  again  for 
 joining  Bryce  and  I  today  and  checking 
 out  these  videos.  Please  like  and 
 subscribe  if  you  haven't  already.  I 
 don't  know  where  you've  been  because  we 
 come  every  single  weekend  to  bring  a  new 
 video  and  in  hopes  that  you  guys  enjoy 
 it.  It's  talking  about  gardens.  It's 
 talking  about  DIYs.  It's  talking  about 
 how  to  create  this  tropical  jungle  for 
 yourself.  And  then  if  you  need  help, 
 we're  here  to  help  along  the  way.  So, 
 take  care.  I  will  see  you  guys  in  the 
 very  next  video.  I'll  get  Bryce  to  pop 
 in  a  recent  garden  tour  if  you  guys 
 would  like  to  see  that.  It's  going  to  be 
 listed  over  here  somewhere.  And  I  will 
 see  you  guys  next  week.  Take  care.

---

 well  hello  gardeners  welcome  back  to 
 today's  video  today  we  are  on  Palm  City 
 Florida  and  we  are  going  to  do  a  garden 
 tour  for  you  this  project  we  finished  a 
 couple  weeks  ago  I  think  it  turned  out 
 so  lovely  and  it  had  some  unique 
 interests  so  I  thought  gosh  this  might 
 be  a  video  for  you  guys  who  have  had 
 maybe  just  moved  into  a  home  and  you 
 have  a  similar  situation  as  my  clients 
 did  here  where  you  have  new  construction 
 which  came  with  a  typical  Builder 
 package  now  this  Builder  package  was  it 
 had  a  lot  of  plants  it  was  not  terrible 
 I'll  get  Bry  to  kind  of  pop  in  a  an 
 image  of  what  it  looked  like  and  kind  of 
 what  we  were  dealing  with  they  actually 
 had  a  good  amount  of  plant  material  in 
 in  their  front  yard  so  we  were  able  to 
 use  80%  of  what  they  had  from  the 
 Builder  package  kind  of  reworked  it  and 
 then  reincorporated  it  into  a  new  design 
 of  course  I  added  special  touches  that 
 are  you  know  my  style  and  the  client's 
 style  and  and  ways  to  Jazz  it  up  and 
 make  it  a  really  really  interesting 
 front  yard  um  feel  but  for  the  most  part 
 we  kind  of  took  a  lot  of  their  material 
 and  um  just  kind  of  just  gave  it  more 
 gave  it  more  interest  so  if  you're 
 thinking  about  doing  that  for  your  space 
 so  you  have  an  existing  landscape  and 
 you  like  this  you  like  this  not  so  much 
 this  and  you're  wanting  to  rework  it  and 
 have  some  ideas  on  maybe  how  to  do  that 
 then  stick  around  because  this  video  is 
 going  to  give  you  um  some  design 
 suggestions  as  well  as  what  I  normally 
 do  talk  about  the  plants  the  trees  that 
 we  chose  for  the  area  kind  of  what  they 
 like  kind  of  how  they're  going  to  grow 
 into  the  space  and  how  they're  going  to 
 layer  in  just  to  kind  of  give  you  some 
 insights  on  and  maybe  how  to  replicate 
 this  for  yourself  um  for  those  of  you 
 guys  who  don't  know  me  my  name  is 
 Jennifer  bevans  I'm  a  landscape  designer 
 in  Vero  Beach  Florida  and  we  do  this 
 every  single  day  we  do  landscape  design 
 we  do  landscape  consultations  we  do 
 landscape  design  and  installation  so  if 
 you're  looking  to  have  a  little  bit  more 
 than  what  you're  seeing  in  the  videos 
 and  you  kind  of  like  this  style  like 
 this  look  give  us  a  call  I'll  put  all  of 
 our  contact  information  down  below  and 
 just  see  if  we're  a  good  fit  for  what 
 you're  looking  for  but  for  now  I'm  going 
 to  jump  right  into  the  video  but  first 
 let  me  remind  you  to  subscribe  like  and 
 hit  that  notification  Bell  for  our 
 videos  WE  Post  every  single  weekend  so 
 I'm  going  to  start  in  the  front  yard 
 area  as  you  guys  can  see  I  love  love 
 love  love  to  start  with  my  anchors  so 
 with  this  front  yard  section  I 
 definitely  wanted  to  incorporate  as  you 
 guys  know  it  one  of  my  favorite  palm 
 trees  ever  it  is  the  foxtail  palm  and 
 what's  better  than  one  fox  tail  Palm  but 
 a  triple  fox  tail  palm  and  I  just  think 
 that  it  does  a  nice  job  of  really  giving 
 this  this  big  driveway  a  nice  anchoring 
 point  and  Bryce  if  you  don't  mind 
 panning  to  the  opposite  side  of  the 
 driveway  you  guys  will  see  that  we  have 
 another  one  flanking  that  side  so  I 
 wanted  to  feel  like  a  pretty  nice  grand 
 entrance  in  this  space  I'll  get  Bryce  to 
 pop  in  the  before  picture  so  you  guys 
 can  really  get  a  good  reference  of  of 
 the  way  it  was  looking  the  initial 
 landscaping  and  like  I  said  before  it 
 was  not  terrible  it  was  just  a  lot  of 
 plant  material  all  laid  out  with  just 
 thick  rows  of  plantings  and  it  was  just 
 a  little  bit  too  heavy  on  one  particular 
 species  and  or  one  particular  size  and 
 layer  and  I'll  kind  of  explain  that  as 
 we  get  into  the  Landscaping  so  in  this 
 grouping  here  the  palm  tree  of  course 
 was  new  as  well  as  the  sloppy  painters 
 in  the  background  I  love  love  love  these 
 plants  I  am  a  croin  fan  I  know  people 
 love  them  hate  them  it's  kind  of  one  of 
 those  things  what  I  do  love  the  most 
 about  the  sloppy  painter  is  its  ability 
 to  thrive  in  so  many  different  locations 
 so  this  plant  itself  just  has  a  splash 
 of  yellow  through  this  pretty  awesome 
 green  leaf  and  it  has  kind  of  like  this 
 hairy  Cary  kind  of  look  but  overall  it 
 is  a  very  conformed  plant  more  compact 
 so  this  guy  in  time  will  grow  to  about 
 4T  tall  by  about  3ot  wide  and  just 
 become  a  nice  kind  of  chunky  cluster  now 
 you  can  let  these  guys  grow  if  you  don't 
 ever  trim  them  they  will  continue  to  do 
 what  Florida  plants  do  and  just  grow 
 grow  grow  but  what  they  do  is  they  grow 
 so  so  slowly  so  on  average  Florida 
 plants  are  grown  or  trimmed  I  would  say 
 um  four  times  a  year  is  so  that's  March 
 June  September  and  December  but  with 
 these  guys  because  they  only  need  like  a 
 selective  cut  I  trim  these  guys  maybe 
 twice  a  year  because  they  grow  so  darn 
 slow  so  if  you're  looking  for  a  very  low 
 maintenance  plant  with  a  lot  of  pop  a 
 lot  of  interest  and  kind  of  a  a  good 
 texture  in  the  garden  this  is  your  gal 
 so  they're  going  to  become  a  great 
 backdrop  as  you  can  see  here  they're 
 going  to  be  almost  like  in  this  range 
 here  with  a  thick  dense  kind  of  wild 
 clustering  but  again  they're  chunky  and 
 compact  so  I'm  not  worried  about  them 
 getting  over  into  the  walkway  space 
 they're  just  going  to  kind  of  give  us 
 that  height  that  we  need  and  then  we 
 used  the  junipers  that  the  client  had  so 
 these  are  part  of  the  original  landscape 
 and  we  had  like  a  hundred  of  them  to  use 
 so  I  kind  of  popped  them  into  certain 
 areas  of  the  garden  we've  got  a  little 
 cluster  of  three  because  we  have  some 
 height  here  with  the  sloppy  painters  I 
 needed  something  to  drop  down  to  kind  of 
 just  kind  of  camouflage  the  base  of  the 
 of  the  croin  but  kind  of  not  really 
 compete  with  them  in  any  kind  of  way  so 
 you  can  see  the  height  is  going  to  be 
 here  these  are  going  to  stay  around  that 
 two  foot  range  and  then  we  go  to 
 brightening  them  back  up  by  using  these 
 golden  Dews  and  I  we  rarely  get  to  see 
 these  In  Bloom  you  guys  but  take  a  look 
 at  this  gorgeous  gorgeous  just  petite 
 little  flower  their  real  beauty  is  in 
 the  leaf  and  the  structure  and  the  way 
 they  stay  but  once  in  a  while  they'll 
 surprise  us  with  just  a  nice  little  just 
 little  blooming  group  of  flowers  I  just 
 think  they're  gorgeous  so  you'll  notice 
 that  I  kind  of  did  the  same  thing  here 
 at  my  whole  rinse  and  repeat  pattern  so 
 we've  got  the  sloppy  painters  to  the 
 back  we've  got  a  brightness  in  the 
 middle  and  then  the  two  sides  they're 
 not  only  a  different  color  but  a 
 different  texture  and  leaf  and  they're 
 also  going  to  be  very  Compact  and  low  to 
 the  ground  so  it  goes  low  medium  low 
 high  and  then  your  Thriller  in  the 
 middle  so  this  little  bed  right  here 
 would  make  an  ideal  Island  out  in  your 
 garden  somewhere  if  you  wanted  something 
 that  was  just  a  a  little  fun  and  very 
 low  maintenance  this  is  a  great 
 combination  golden  Dews  can  handle  full 
 sun  they  can  handle  partial  light  gosh 
 they're  just  tough  all  the  way  around 
 they're  just  a  fantastic  plant  all  right 
 so  now  we're  making  our  way  around  this 
 corner  um  so  you  can  kind  of  see  the 
 pattern  here  with  the  lights  in  the 
 darks  and  because  this  corner  is  right 
 there  right  on  the  road  right  a  big 
 focal  point  I  didn't  want  to  didn't  want 
 to  put  anything  in  here  to  hide  so  that 
 way  you  could  see  this  little  area  which 
 I  think  has  just  turned  out  so  great  but 
 I  did  want  something  with  some  impact  so 
 if  you  need  something  like  that 
 incorporating  a  Boulder  coina  Boulder  a 
 Tennessee  Boulder  you  know  anything  that 
 you've  got  that  you  can  work  with  the 
 cap  rock  it  just  it  adds  another  element 
 in  the  garden  and  it  this  one  happened 
 to  be  a  great  color  for  what  we  were 
 working  with  so  I  love  the  brightness  of 
 it  so  well  besides  the  dot  of  green  that 
 I  need  to  stand  off  um  but  we  match  so 
 this  Boulder  here  when  you're  placing 
 your  Boulders  what  we  normally  do 
 instead  of  laying  them  kind  of  perfectly 
 flat  like  you  would  see  them  we  do 
 usually  kind  of  tilt  them  up  and  pack 
 dirt  from  behind  them  really  really  nice 
 and  tight  and  that  gives  that  kind  of 
 you  get  to  see  the  whole  face  of  the 
 boulder  from  such  a  distance  so  it 
 doesn't  take  much  effort  to  do  that  and 
 it  really  to  me  it  looks  really  good  and 
 it  allows  me  to  plant  to  the  back  side 
 of  it  sometimes  I'll  put  something  crazy 
 and  with  a  lot  of  fronds  or  something 
 that  kind  of  just  encroaches  around  it 
 and  this  particular  case  I  wanted  to 
 keep  it  super  clean  because  that's  the 
 that's  my  client's  style  and  so  what  we 
 have  is  we  have  kind  of  a  Halo  of  the 
 golden  de's  as  the  backdrop  and  then 
 right  in  the  little  nooks  the  perfect 
 little  areas  where  this  the  boulder  kind 
 of  happens  to  curve  a  little  bit  here 
 and  curve  a  little  bit  here  and  gives  us 
 a  little  bit  of  impact  I've  got  three 
 little  rubies  and  these  little  rubies 
 are  just  going  to  do  a  great  job  of 
 coming  up  into  this  height  here  into 
 that  height  there  and  really  kind  of 
 just  kind  of  giving  it  a  a  deeper  darker 
 color  contrast  to  the  boulder  itself  so 
 we'll  go  from  Bright  of  the  boulder  to 
 dark  to  the  Halo  of  golden  Dews  and 
 that's  just  going  to  come  together  so 
 well  I  cannot  wait  6  months  for  that  to 
 really  kind  of  come  to  you  know  to 
 fruition  right  by  a  walkway  I  have  a 
 tendency  to  want  to  keep  it  real  clean 
 and  that's  just  to  kind  of  avoid  you 
 know  things  hitting  people  as  they  walk 
 up  to  their  walkway  and  this  particular 
 walkway  was  so  long  that  I  wanted  to 
 make  sure  that  things  like  the  golden 
 Dees  and  this  and  the  stone  work  and  all 
 of  that  was  just  really  tidy  along  that 
 walkway  to  kind  of  you  know  to  kind  of 
 soften  it  but  also  to  not  make  it  look 
 like  it's  it's  kind  of  a  hazard  getting 
 into  it  there's  many  times  I  walk  into 
 people's  houses  and  I'm  like  this 
 between  the  plants  so  I  try  to  avoid 
 that  when  I'm  creating  a  garden  so  what 
 we  have  here  is  the  Taiwanese  exor 
 they're  fantastic  I  work  with  them  all 
 the  time  they  bloom  10  months  of  the 
 year  they  can  handle  full  sun  they  can 
 handle  partial  sun  they  can  you  know 
 they  can  pretty  much  just  take  it  all 
 they  can  handle  salt  they  can  handle  a 
 little  bit  moist  conditions  they're  not 
 heavy  feeders  and  they  give  you  a  lot  of 
 a  lot  of  Bloom  coverage  now  I'm  not  a 
 biggest  fan  of  the  larger  variety  of  the 
 exor  because  they  have  a  tendency  to  get 
 diseased  really  easy  so  I  tend  to  use 
 these  mainly  however  I  will  get  into  the 
 ones  that  are  behind  me  that  came  with 
 the  home  so  we  did  utilize  a  few  of 
 those  but  right  here  we  have  a  nice  tidy 
 little  grouping  these  are  only  going  to 
 get  about  a  foot  taller  than  the  golden 
 Dees  so  you  can  kind  of  see  the  pattern 
 as  we're  working  where  we  go  with  the 
 green  junipers  that  are  kind  of  nice  and 
 tidy  and  small  the  golden  Dews  that  get 
 about  a  foot  taller  than  those  the  Ruby 
 Reds  that  are  going  to  kind  of  become 
 bushy  to  the  front  and  then  these  guys 
 that  are  going  to  get  just  a  tad  bit 
 taller  so  it's  a  lot  of  up  and  down  as 
 as  things  grow  in  and  that's  the  growth 
 pattern  of  these  plants  so  when  they 
 trim  in  those  months  that  we  talk  about 
 trimming  if  you  trim  in  those  in  in  that 
 same  kind  of  time  frame  you're  always 
 going  to  have  this  natural  level  that 
 you're  just  maintaining  and  so  it  just 
 makes  it  so  much  easier  maintenance  when 
 you  pair  the  right  plant  um  for  the 
 right  place  so  as  I  mentioned  before  I 
 told  use  the  regular  exor  as  much  these 
 are  a  different  variety  of  dwarf  exor 
 they're  not  my  common  plant  to  go  to 
 however  they  were  nice  they  were  here 
 and  I  I  didn't  want  to  waste  them  so  we 
 ended  up  incorporating  them  and  one  of 
 the  things  that  I  do  like  about  the 
 location  that  I  chose  for  these  guys  is 
 because  we  have  a  walkway  path  which 
 I'll  get  into  in  a  second  behind  me  and 
 um  I  needed  a  little  bit  of  coverage 
 just  from  the  sidewalk  just  from  the 
 road  I  wanted  kind  of  a  front  landscape 
 and  then  a  back  landscape  and  again  I'll 
 get  into  that  in  a  minute  why  we  had  to 
 do  that  but  these  bloom  a  yellow  flower 
 now  these  are  called  Maui  dwarf  yellow 
 exor  and  I  can't  say  that  I  I  mean  I 
 love  them  they  look  great  they  just 
 don't  Bloom  nearly  as  much  as  the  dwarf 
 Taiwanese  exora  so  I  tend  to  lean  more 
 towards  those  when  I  have  to  pick  a 
 particular  plant  they  do  Bloom  it's  kind 
 of  an  off  yellow  kind  of  coloring  but 
 what's  really  cool  is  they  do  kind  of 
 are  easy  to  keep  more  of  a  compact  kind 
 of  leaf  I  think  they're  going  to  do 
 really  well  in  this  particular  location 
 because  my  clients  kind  of  like  they 
 like  that  tropical  feel  but  they  also 
 like  clean  lines  so  these  are  going  to 
 flow  right  into  that  kind  of  vibe  so 
 they're  going  to  be  great  so  now  we're 
 on  the  inside  of  the  bed  and  you  guys 
 know  I  cannot  say  enough  about  my  anti-l 
 I  love  anti-l  I  would  put  them 
 everywhere  if  my  clients  would  let  me  I 
 I  love  this  collection  behind  me  now 
 these  sometimes  they  get  confused  with 
 Hawaiian  ties  but  anti-l  can  handle  full 
 sun  they  like  filtered  light  too  so  you 
 can  put  them  and  they  even  like  in  the 
 shades  so  they're  kind  of  like  a 
 allpurpose  kind  of  quarterline  but  what 
 they  do  is  they  really  open  up  and  widen 
 out  a  little  bit  so  they  get  more  of 
 that  Lily  fashion  versus  that  too  much 
 of  that  tall  look  now  they  won't  get 
 super  wide  and  outgrow  a  space  they're 
 just  like  almost  perfect  so  when  you 
 plant  them  in  a  clustering  like  you  see 
 here  and  they're  going  to  really  kind  of 
 chunk  out  so  they'll  touch  each  other  as 
 they  grow  in  and  become  like  a  half 
 circle  of  a  really  gorgeous  leafy  bright 
 colored  wall  that  helped  disguise  some 
 of  this  kind  of  trunk  line  here  I  love 
 that  we  had  this  tree  we  inherited  this 
 tree  as  part  of  the  original  landscape 
 but  there's  nothing  to  the  trunk  but  a 
 beam  so  we're  dressing  her  up  so  this  is 
 a  dress  up  session  to  this  Alexander 
 those  will  engulf  the  rear  side  of  it 
 and  come  all  the  way  to  about  here  as 
 they  fold  forward  so  almost  like  a  a 
 beautiful  pink  screen  back  there  of 
 color  and  then  we  topped  it  off  with  two 
 ice  tone  croin  I  mentioned  I'm  a  croin 
 person  I  I  love  the  way  they  look  but  if 
 you  guys  like  croin  but  are  not  a  fan  of 
 some  of  the  orangey  tones  cuz  I  would 
 say  90%  of  the  croin  either  are  yellow 
 or  have  that  orangey  kind  of  yellow 
 reddish  kind  of  coloring  these  have  more 
 of  a  pink  or  mauve  and  dark  dark  tones 
 almost  like  Black  edging  on  some  leaves 
 so  I  love  them  now  the  negative  to  these 
 guys  is  they're  kind  of  like  in  the 
 sloppy  painter  family  where  if  you're 
 going  to  put  them  in  full  sun  they're 
 going  to  need  a  little  bit  of  frond 
 protection  these  get  partial  sun  and  are 
 handling  it  really  really  well  so  you 
 can  can  really  use  them  in  so  many 
 different  areas  but  you  kind  of  see  how 
 nice  and  chunky  and  fat  they  are  so 
 they're  very  easy  to  keep  in  that  kind 
 of  fashion  that  kind  of  big  chunky 
 rounded  fashion  so  I  try  to  buy  these 
 guys  in  10  gallon  size  you  can  buy  them 
 in  10  or  15  gallon  I  I  do  stay  away  from 
 the  three  gallon  size  unless  my  budget 
 just  doesn't  allow  because  when  they're 
 like  this  they're  so  so  easy  to  keep 
 this  way  trying  to  get  them  this  way  in 
 your  garden  nipping  and  clipping  and 
 trying  to  let  them  you  know  flush  out 
 can  take  a  more  of  a  an  experienced  eye 
 I  would  say  so  I  let  the  nurseries  do 
 the  work  for  me  on  this  I  might  just  use 
 two  or  three  of  them  in  the  garden 
 versus  using  10  or  12  like  I  would  in  a 
 three  gallon  size  is  the  price  about  the 
 same  yeah  but  you  all  you  get  a  a  really 
 nice  formed  plant  groupings  down  below 
 we  have  the  golden  de's  yet  again 
 because  they  pull  out  this  bright 
 coloring  and  to  me  we  have  a  lot  of 
 Darkness  here  with  a  little  bit  of 
 highlight  variation  color  and  then  we've 
 kind  of  given  that  Final  Touch  of  bright 
 coloring  of  the  golden  de's  so  if  you 
 guys  just  like  we  were  looking  at  that 
 front  Island  if  this  is  a  look  that  you 
 like  it  doesn't  need  to  be  in  a  little 
 Courtyard  area  or  right  in  the  front 
 entrance  this  kind  of  look  you  can  kind 
 of  take  it  and  recreate  it  in  a  a  pocket 
 area  of  your  your  yard  maybe  a  cool 
 little  out  outside  island  or  right 
 outside  your  your  bedroom  window  outside 
 of  a  window  if  you  want  to  kind  of  get 
 have  this  kind  of  variation  of  color 
 this  is  your  look  this  is  an  easy  way  to 
 do  it  now  I  would  say  try  not  to  do  it 
 with  all  the  same  size  or  same  container 
 size  plants  because  it  can  be  the  way 
 the  growth  habits  happen  they  can  grow 
 into  each  other  too  much  and  it  can  be  a 
 little  congested  so  if  you  can  and  works 
 with  your  budget  try  to  get  these  guys 
 in  15  gallon  size  so  they  already  have 
 enough  upright  kind  of  look  try  to  get 
 these  guys  in  7  10  or  15  gallon  size  and 
 that's  about  as  small  as  you  want  to  go 
 with  seven  gallon  on  these  guys  and  then 
 these  guys  can  be  three  gallons  or  one 
 gallons  cuz  these  are  your  ground  cover 
 down  below  if  you  do  that  ratio  then 
 when  you're  trimming  it's  time  to  trim 
 three  months  after  you're  planting  them 
 or  four  months  it's  so  much  easier 
 because  you  can  really  see  all  we're 
 doing  is  maintaining  this  they  are  they 
 going  to  get  thicker  and  chunkier  yes 
 but  we're  really  just  maintaining  this 
 height  is  is  one  and  done  it's 
 established  so  we  just  want  these  to 
 connect  together  these  to  get  chunkier 
 and  these  to  just  get  a  tad  bit  bigger 
 as  a  backdrop  and  we're  done  there's  no 
 guessing  work  that's  going  on  so  when  I 
 get  a  client  who's  like  I  want  low 
 maintenance  plants  in  Florida  are 
 Tropicals  they're  not  really  set  up  to 
 be  low-maintenance  plants  but  if  you 
 plant  them  the  right  way  in  a  good 
 combination  and  the  right  sizes  then 
 gosh  it  makes  it  so  much  easier  long 
 term  to  work  with  those  plants  to  have 
 it  almost  like  a  readymade  design  for 
 you  all  right  so  we're  going  to  continue 
 on  with  this  bed  now  this  tree  right 
 here  this  was  one  that  we  inherited  it 
 was  over  on  the  corner  cor  it  was 
 struggling  a  bit  but  if  you  guys  know 
 anything  about  lustrum  you  know  that 
 they're  pricey  little  guys  so  I  didn't 
 want  to  toss  him  I  was  hoping  to  reuse 
 him  I  think  he's  going  to  bounce  back 
 because  my  gardeners  my  clients  here  are 
 true  gardeners  I  mean  they  get  out  in 
 their  yard  and  they  work  so  I  know  that 
 they're  going  to  get  this  back  to  to  the 
 look  that  we're  hoping  for  now  with  this 
 kind  of  plant  for  those  of  you  guys  who 
 don't  know  what  lustrum  do  they  have  a 
 beautiful  shiny  Green  Leaf  they  Mound 
 out  they  can  you  can  keep  them  kind  of 
 mushroom  top  top  like  where  the  bottom 
 is  a  little  flat  and  the  top  is  kind  of 
 rounded  and  then  more  clean  trunk  where 
 you  can  see  these  trunks  kind  of  these 
 cool  great  viny  kind  of  trunks  more 
 exposed  when  it  gets  a  little  bit  bigger 
 you  can  really  really  kind  of  see  that 
 start  to  happen  and  I  tell  my  clients 
 all  the  time  on  these  guys  because  they 
 get  so  Broad  and  dense  on  the  outside  it 
 offers  a  pocket  of  shade  underneath  that 
 tree  and  you  get  to  see  those  cool 
 trunks  kind  of  do  their  thing  such  a 
 great  place  to  put  orchids  or  vermil  ads 
 I  mean  you  can  attach  those  orchids  and 
 then  let  the  blooms  kind  of  hang  over 
 top  of  those  trunks  and  it's  just  it's 
 such  a  focal  point  so  this  area  right 
 here  right  by  the  front  door  right  along 
 the  walkway  becomes  a  canvas  for  just 
 whatever  you  want  to  put  on  it  whatever 
 epy  you  want  to  put  on  it  um  because  the 
 the  tree  itself  is  going  to  protect  it 
 from  the  harmful  rays  and  then  you  get 
 the  you  get  some  beautiful  blooms  at  the 
 bottom  so  I  think  that's  going  to  be 
 stunning  I  cannot  wait  to  see  that 
 happen  songs  of  India  um  kind  of 
 wrapping  around  the  rear  sides  of  these 
 guys  because  again  we've  got  a  dark 
 species  here  and  I  wanted  something  kind 
 of  bright  underneath  of  them  now  a  lot 
 of  people  have  a  trouble  with  how  to 
 trim  these  guys  so  I'll  just  kind  of 
 mention  it  quickly  they  throw  up  three 
 or  four  little  shoots  individually  kind 
 of  like  I  don't  know  Octopus  arms  really 
 cool  but  what  they're  doing  is  they're 
 looking  to  lean  and  connect  with  a 
 neighboring  plant  that's  why  I  always 
 almost  plant  them  like  in  a  triangle 
 formation  so  they  grip  together  really 
 quick  when  they  do  that  they  still  have 
 this  really  cool  kind  of  looked  to  the 
 stems  but  they  become  denser  and  Fuller 
 and  when  you  see  a  full  collection  of 
 those  it's  just  like  wow  what  is  that 
 plant  takes  on  a  whole  another  look  so  I 
 encourage  people  you  can  almost  use 
 these  like  little  tropical  Hedges  I  love 
 clustering  them  together  because  they 
 never  get  too  controlled  but  they  if 
 done  properly  they're  they're  really 
 easy  to  keep  kind  of  like  a  little  a 
 tropical  cluster  of  of  a  a  bright  spot 
 in  a  garden  so  so  don't  sleep  on  the  U 
 song  of  India  if  you  like  the  look  of 
 this  Leaf  I  just  think  it's  I  don't  know 
 I  just  think  it's  so  tropical  so  but 
 what  a  great  little  Jia  to  the  front  I 
 just  did  a  little  pop  out  along  this 
 area  along  this  wall  if  you  guys  can 
 tell  this  is  a  very  long  wall  with  a 
 very  long  walkway  and  this  area  has 
 enough  interest  to  Jazz  it  up  but  when 
 you  have  this  long  expanse  this  long 
 space  it's  kind  of  hard  to  figure  out 
 how  not  to  make  that  look  boring  now 
 initially  what  was  here  was  rows  and 
 rows  of  of  Hedges  that  were  straight  so 
 it  to  me  it  just  kind  of  over 
 exaggerated  the  length  of  this  so  what  I 
 wanted  to  do  was  break  it  up  into 
 actually  three  different  kind  of  beds  I 
 wanted  this  as  like  a  little  cute  island 
 with  some  impact  this  as  its  own  little 
 grouping  here  taking  the  stone  just  to 
 tie  it  in  with  the  pathway  that  we  have 
 across  from  it  and  then  this  as  a 
 separate  section  right  by  the  front 
 entrance  it's  really  coming  together 
 you'll  notice  that  this  little  grouping 
 with  the  ice  tone  croin  and  the  um  anti 
 on  the  corners  ties  in  with  what  on  the 
 on  the  front  corner  of  this  very  long 
 walkway  because  I  like  the  way  that  that 
 kind  of  you  know  it's  the  rhythm  of  the 
 planting  whatever  cluster  you  put  there 
 you  want  to  make  sure  to  try  to 
 incorporate  if  not  the  same  plant 
 grouping  the  same  color  and  it  it  just 
 comes  together  so  nice  so  we'll  have  a  a 
 touch  of  those  same  kind  of  Reds  over  on 
 that  corner  and  then  right  in  the  front 
 left  corner  we  have  the  Ruby  Reds  with 
 the  gold  Mound  which  give  us  that  same 
 kind  of  touch  of  that  burgundy  and 
 reddish  color  and  and  then  before  you 
 know  it  it  all  kind  of  like  it  it's  a 
 theme  it  all  makes  sense  so  so  try  to 
 incorporate  that  throughout  the  Garden 
 to  me  that's  what  makes  a  garden  feel 
 like  it's  very  cohesive  it  has  a  good 
 Rhythm  to  it  so  all  right  so  what  we 
 have  here  is  two  anti-  L  right  in  this 
 open  Gap  we're  going  to  let  them  get  a 
 couple  foot  taller  and  let  them  be  the 
 focal  point  they're  going  to  do  really 
 well  there  they  get  filtered  light 
 protected  pretty  much  from  the  eve  of 
 the  house  and  then  they're  just  they're 
 just  going  to  kind  of  accentuate  these 
 columns  on  either  side  give  us  a  little 
 bit  of  intermediate  height  and  then  a 
 little  chunky  version  of  those  same  ice 
 toast  tone  croin  and  I  love  that  they're 
 just  going  to  get  chunkier  and  it'll  tad 
 bit  taller  and  that's  exactly  what  we 
 wanted  right  here  soften  it  with  the  fox 
 tail  ferns  that  are  here  and  then  right 
 in  these  little  areas  are  invisible  blue 
 my  Minds  here  here  and  here  because  the 
 bunnies  like  them  as  much  as  we  do 
 apparently  so  we  have  been  treating  them 
 with  pellet  and  they're  coming  back  I 
 see  little  sprigs  everywhere  but  but  as 
 you  can  tell  you  know  they're  they're 
 not  quite  quite  there  yet  I  was  hoping 
 they  would  be  back  but  they  they're 
 going  to  take  a  couple  weeks  to  flush 
 back  out  but  I  do  love  the  idea  of  the 
 blue  my  Minds  being  in  these  little 
 Corners  they're  going  to  do  so  fantastic 
 against  this  gray  Granite  I  just  think 
 that  those  Blues  pop  so  well  together 
 and  it's  also  a  great  contrast  from  the 
 yellows  and  the  Reds  of  the  dwarf  exora 
 so  it's  going  to  be  great  so  I'm  like 
 pushing  for  the  blue  my  Minds  to  make 
 their  way  back  and  keeping  the  bunnies 
 at  Bay  we're  in  canopy  Creek  in  Palm 
 City  in  this  community  and  this  yard  is 
 huge  and  fantastic  the  backyard  is 
 gorgeous  but  it's  all  the  way  it's 
 backed  around  a  preserve  and  you  know 
 nature  and  animals  they  all  live  in 
 there  so  they  make  their  way  into  some 
 of  the  new  Gardens  as  a  buffet  and 
 that's  kind  of  what's  Happening  Here 
 unfortunately  well  I  don't  know  how  I 
 forgot  These  Guys  these  are  Italian 
 Cyprus  so  my  client  loved  the  idea  of 
 having  the  Italians  I  she  always  love 
 Italian  Cypress  so  I  found  two  beautiful 
 girls  and  I  think  they  do  a  great  job  of 
 emphasizing  the  height  and  the  structure 
 of  this  house  now  if  you  have  a  smaller 
 home  a  smaller  brow  on  the  top  of  the 
 roof  line  it's  more  flat  then  you  want 
 to  stay  away  from  too  much  of  that 
 vertical  aspect  you  want  to  kind  of 
 create  that  in  different  ways  maybe  more 
 on  the  corners  and  more  you  know  forward 
 planting  versus  right  along  the  house 
 but  because  of  the  way  this  house  is 
 structured  having  these  vertical  palm 
 trees  and  Italian  s  Cyprus  kind  of 
 really  break  up  the  house  line  and  the 
 roof  lines  I  think  it  just  turned  out  so 
 lovely  you  guys  will  have  to  let  me  know 
 what  you  think  but  I  I  love  them  and  I 
 don't  get  to  work  with  them  very  often 
 so  I  was  super  excited  to  incorporate 
 them  if  you  guys  are  looking  for  a 
 similar  kind  of  look  but  maybe  Italian 
 Cypress  aren't  really  good  for  your  area 
 check  out  Mass  trees  I've  used  them  in 
 the  same  kind  of  situation  at  an 
 entrance  way  or  to  highlight  a  corner  of 
 a  house  and  they're  fabulous  they're  so 
 fantastic  to  work  with  and  they  have  a 
 really  cool  kind  of  texture  to  the  leaf 
 if  you  need  something  like  that  but 
 maybe  not  quite  so  tall  you  can  do 
 Japanese  blueberry  trees  they  kind  of 
 give  you  that  great  6  to  8T  height  and 
 then  it  also  kind  of  easy  to  keep  column 
 like  and  then  of  course  depending  on  how 
 further  north  you  guys  are  I  know  you 
 have  spruces  and  whatnot  that  can  also 
 you  know  create  that  type  of  look  for 
 you  but  I  think  these  are  a  go-to  for 
 for  this  particular  area  now  for  the 
 elephant  in  the  in  the  Rock  so  um  so  we 
 have  a  walkway  here  I'm  going  to  show 
 you  guys  how  cool  I  think  this  walkway 
 is  and  I  might  start  incorporating 
 walkways  in  front  yards  all  the  time  now 
 because  I  think  it  turned  out  so  great 
 the  reason  why  this  walkway  is  here  is 
 because  this  house  is  of  course  brand 
 new  however  the  house  next  to  it  was  not 
 it  was  a  model  home  and  this  was  the 
 parking  lot  for  the  model  home  so  this 
 parking  lot  went  all  the  way  to  this 
 front  section  here  and  went  straight 
 across  to  the  neighboring  house  and  took 
 out  a  good  portion  of  that  lot  now  the 
 builders  did  remove  the  pavers  but  they 
 kept  the  hard  base  that  was  in  there 
 that  pretty  much  turned  to  stone  I  mean 
 it  was  like  concrete  underneath  there 
 literally  we  were  like  worried  about 
 breaking  uh  bits  from  our  augers  so  not 
 a  situation  i'  I've  ever  had  before  in 
 all  of  my  years  of  planting  but  it  was 
 an  interesting  one  because  there's  not 
 there's  it's  almost  impossible  to  take  a 
 flat  space  and  completely  get  rid  of 
 that  concrete  and  worrying  about 
 drainage  and  is  it  going  to  pocket  is  it 
 going  to  pull  here  is  it  going  to  be  an 
 issue  and  so  this  was  this  was  a  doozy 
 and  and  you  guys  who  are  gardeners  you 
 know  all  about  this  maybe  not  papers  or 
 or  concrete  but  you  know  that  every  time 
 you  start  gardening  there  is  going  to  be 
 something  that  you're  going  to  run 
 across  that  you're  going  to  have  to  say 
 okay  didn't  plan  on  this  so  how  do  we 
 make  the  best  of  the  situation  and 
 that's  kind  of  what  happened  here  we  had 
 to  kind  of  create  an  area  and  a  reason 
 to  not  plant  in  this  12T  section  that 
 goes  out  this  way  and  the  little  pockets 
 that  I  could  not  avoid  putting  plants  in 
 I  did  shallow  plants  and  then  I  also  did 
 water  loving  plants  so  if  it  does  pocket 
 over  time  I  don't  have  to  worry  about  it 
 because  these  are  plants  that  can 
 obviously  survive  moist  soil  we  call 
 them  wet  feet  plants  so  so  that  was  the 
 best  way  to  to  work  with  this  space  so 
 we  decided  to  take  a  crushed  granite  U 
 path  this  is  alined  with  aluminum  alloy 
 edging  I  didn't  take  a  straight  path 
 because  again  we  had  a  lot  of  width  that 
 we  had  to  work  with  so  what  I  chose  to 
 do  is  start  here  which  with  was  not  uh 
 concrete  it  started  somewhere  right 
 around  this  range  here  is  where  the 
 concrete  started  and  worked  our  way  back 
 50  foot  that  way  so  but  so  what  I  did  do 
 was  widen  the  path  as  big  as  I  could 
 without  it  looking  obscene  and  then  kind 
 of  create  curves  to  create  Pockets  so 
 that  way  we  have  Gardens  on  both  sides 
 of  the  walkway  to  kind  of  make  it 
 interesting  so  you  can  see  how  it  starts 
 and  angles  this  way  and  then  curves  and 
 then  curves  tight  here  where  all  of  this 
 is  concrete  right  here  we  left  these 
 plants  that  were  here  um  because  they 
 were  here  and  they  were  doing  well 
 they're  shallow  feeder  so  as  long  as 
 they  kind  of  keep  them  nice  and  compact 
 hopefully  they're  going  to  do  just  fine 
 but  they  were  here  from  the  construction 
 so  I'm  hoping  they're  going  to  stay  put 
 this  little  area  um  I  was  worried  about 
 putting  anything  heavy  here  so  we  have 
 golden  Sedum  here  it's  a  very  very 
 shallow  Runner  with  roots  so  it  can  live 
 on  just  a  few  inches  of  soil  so  I  think 
 they're  going  to  do  fabulous  right  here 
 these  are  giant  Apostle  Iris  and  they  a 
 gorgeous  purple  flower  they  love  early 
 morning  sun  to  midday  Sun  but  late 
 afternoon  sun  they  can  get  a  little  bit 
 hairy  carry  so  they  need  to  be  under 
 Palm  frons  if  you're  going  to  put  them 
 out  in  the  Suns  Sun  but  what  I  do  love 
 about  these  is  they  kind  of  hold  up  like 
 a  hand  and  then  they  start  to  really 
 kind  of  fan  like  this  versus  kind  of 
 coming  out  too  much  like  this  they 
 really  can  stay  nice  and  upright  with 
 just  minor  trimming  you  can  kind  of  see 
 how  we've  got  one  that's  laying  on  the 
 ground  so  all  you  would  do  is  you  would 
 just  come  and  you  would  trim  this  guys 
 close  to  the  base  of  the  plant  here  and 
 just  remove  that  stock  and  that's  it 
 that's  the  trimming  they  need  so  these 
 guys  during  your  trimming  cycle  you 
 might  spend  10  minutes  on  them  just  kind 
 of  coming  through  and  trimming  whatever 
 isn't  necessary  so  but  they're  going  to 
 Cluster  together  to  kind  of  almost  give 
 us  like  a  grassy  kind  of  feel  so  I  think 
 that's  going  to  be  great  to  work  with 
 their  beautiful  purple  blooms  that  none 
 of  them  have  for  today's  video  sorry 
 guys  over  here  we  left  a  pocket  of  plant 
 groupings  here  we  Ed  more  songs  of  India 
 to  really  cluster  nice  and  full  on  the 
 rear  side  of  this  double  Alexander  Palm 
 that  we  did  inher  it  as  part  of  the 
 landscape  so  I  think  it  looks  really 
 good  here  and  these  songs  of  India  to 
 the  back  are  going  to  kind  of  come  in  at 
 a  nice  4ot  height  and  really  thicken  up 
 this  space  then  we've  got  these  guys 
 down  below  they're  going  to  be  shorter 
 than  that  the  dwarf  Taiwanese  exor  and 
 then  of  course  the  Maui  dwarf  exor  are 
 going  to  be  taller  than  that  on  the 
 sides  so  we've  got  dark  dark  light  and 
 then  of  course  this  gorgeous  vshape  to 
 this  and  then  of  course  the  walkway  kind 
 of  pushes  out  to  give  us  the  room  for 
 this  bed  gives  us  a  purpose  for  this  bed 
 to  be  here  and  then  we  used  the  junipers 
 down  below  since  we  had  so  many  of  those 
 to  work  with  from  the  existing  the 
 previous  landscape  all  right  so  he 
 finished  it  off  with  their  exora  some 
 little  laia  piece  to  kind  of  match  that 
 kind  of  grassy  texture  that  we  have  on 
 this  side  and  then  brought  in  another 
 another  legum  because  they're  gorgeous  I 
 love  the  way  they  look  of  course  you  can 
 tell  this  one's  in  much  better  shape  I 
 have  good  hopes  that  the  other  one  will 
 get  there  for  the  clients  but  this  one 
 this  is  the  one  that  we  brought  in  and 
 you  can  kind  of  see  what  I  mean  about 
 the  trunk  on  this  guy  now  he's  going  to 
 expand  out  on  both  sides  and  really  kind 
 of  give  us  that  big  ball  like  shape  they 
 can  flatten  this  bottom  if  they  want 
 they  can  keep  it  more  ball  likee  it's 
 really  your  preference  on  the  look  that 
 you  like  but  it's  a  very  nice  clean  look 
 and  actually  works  really  well  with  palm 
 trees  and  it  can  stay  the  height  that 
 you  that  it  is  now  forever  or  you  can 
 allow  it  to  get  five  or  six  foot  tall  as 
 the  rest  of  the  Landscaping  grow  so  that 
 way  you  always  have  those  under  tear  you 
 have  your  height  you  have  your  under 
 story  height  to  that  big  height  and  then 
 you  have  your  underst  story  height  to 
 that  and  so  on  so  this  is  one  of  those 
 features  that  are  going  to  be  a  staple 
 in  the  garden  and  really  just  kind  of  be 
 that  anchor  on  this  corner  and  right  off 
 the  corner  of  this  cool  walkway  so  I 
 might  start  doing  walkways  I  don't  know 
 you  guys  will  have  to  let  me  know  what 
 you  think  think  these  guys  are  super 
 active  they're  out  in  their  yard  all  the 
 time  it  was  such  a  pleasure  working  with 
 them  I  know  that  they  access  this  area 
 so  much  I  know  that  they  come  through 
 here  and  go  to  their  backyard  which  is 
 gosh  if  you  think  the  front  yard's 
 stunning  you'll  have  to  see  the  backyard 
 we'll  have  to  do  a  tour  on  that  when  we 
 get  time  Bryce  but  there  you  know  I 
 think  being  able  to  cut  through  this 
 instead  of  going  all  the  way  around  the 
 front  yard  then  making  your  way  to  the 
 backyard  I  I  just  I  I  think  it's  so  cool 
 and  then  not  only  that  but  they  get  to 
 when  they  do  their  maintenance  it  is  is 
 so  easy  to  maintain  from  this  side 
 maintain  from  this  side  and  then  be  able 
 to  maintain  from  the  opposite  side  so 
 you  can  bring  a  little  wheelbarrow  in 
 here  clip  clip  clip  put  it  in  the 
 wheelbarrow  go  around  the  other  side  do 
 the  clip  clip  clip  instead  of  having  to 
 walk  through  four  or  five  layers  of 
 plants  to  get  to  the  back  and  trims  so 
 having  a  little  walkway  on  the  inside  is 
 not  a  bad  idea  um  I  have  done  it  too 
 where  I've  done  it  right  along  the  house 
 and  it's  the  back  of  the  planting  buffer 
 that  looks  good  too  but  I  think  this  is 
 kind  of  charming  with  where  the  walkway 
 is  so  you  again  you  guys  will  have  to 
 let  me  know  what  you  think  so  we 
 finished  it  off  with  that  burgundy  color 
 that  we  have  with  the  anti-  lose  so  when 
 you're  looking  at  it  from  the  road  I 
 think  this  does  a  great  job  especially 
 when  they  get  bigger  they're  going  to  be 
 six  foot  tall  back  here  you  guys  and 
 really  give  us  that  big  broad  bright 
 kind  of  dark  contrasting  color  here 
 they're  also  going  to  do  a  nice  job  of 
 disguising  the  walkway  itself  so  this  is 
 almost  going  to  be  like  the  front 
 walkway  path  and  then  you  get  to  see  the 
 interior  planting  as  you  walk  through 
 the  garden  but  there'll  be  a  6ot  tall 
 and  then  into  the  front  we  have  the 
 sloppy  painters  and  we'll  just  jog  over 
 there  Bryce  and  and  check  those  out  so 
 we  are  now  at  the  front  side  of  that  bed 
 that  we  were  just  standing  behind  that 
 lustrum  and  we  have  another  Boulder  to 
 complement  the  boulder  that  we  have  on 
 that  corner  there  we  continued  it  off 
 with  the  Maui  um  yellow  exor  then  have  a 
 touch  of  the  sloppy  Painter  croin  with  a 
 little  bit  of  the  grassy  feel  that  we 
 have  on  the  opposite  side  but  the 
 showstoppers  are  going  to  be  those 
 Louisiana  red  copper  leaf  I  mean  those 
 Louisiana  red  copper  leaf  Rojo  copper 
 leaf  whichever  whatever  you  call  them 
 they  are  fabulous  to  work  with  I 
 incorporate  them  in  big  clusters  now 
 those  without  a  doubt  you  want  to  stay 
 on  your  trimming  cycle  so  those  four 
 months  out  of  the  year  that  you  do  your 
 trimming  you  want  to  hit  those  pretty 
 good  and  pretty  hard  so  I  sometimes  I'll 
 come  out  and  I'll  take  off  two  foot  of 
 mine  because  what  you  really  want  to  do 
 is  they  have  a  tendency  to  really  want 
 to  shoot  up  fast  and  get  kind  of  leggy 
 and  kind  of  wonky  but  when  you  take  that 
 much  off  of  them  it  forces  that  energy 
 from  the  bottom  to  come  into  the 
 interior  and  widen  them  out  so  you'll 
 end  up  with  a  gorgeous  collection  of  red 
 copper  leaves  if  you  just  kind  of  hit 
 those  in  that  month  March  June  September 
 and  December  somewhere  one  of  those 
 weekends  in  those  months  and  hit  those 
 and  they  will  be  so  so  so  gorgeous  for 
 you  and  not  crazy  and  and  you  know 
 ridiculously  out  of  control  because  they 
 can  get  10t  12T  tall  if  you  let  them 
 just  like  most  Florida  plants  but  you 
 can  easily  keep  them  5  or  6  foot  thick 
 and  dense  and  become  the  the  burgundy 
 wall  that  you  want  them  to  be  by  just 
 cut  cutting  them  off  when  they're  needed 
 during  those  months  so  we  finished  this 
 this  area  off  with  some  Royal  Palms  so 
 as  I  mentioned  before  this  house  has 
 some  size  to  it  it  has  a  lot  of  roof 
 line  a  lot  of  wall  space  just  overall 
 fantastic  with  its  height  so  when  you 
 have  a  house  like  that  then  you  can 
 absolutely  incorporate  big  palm  trees  so 
 at  the  very  Corners  at  the  very  edges  we 
 have  Royal  Palms  cuz  they  are  going  to 
 get  quite  large  in  this  area  so  want 
 them  outside  the  lines  of  the  house  and 
 they're  really  going  to  do  a  great  job 
 of  giving  us  some  serious  anchors  on 
 this  corner  and  you  guys  can  see  that  a 
 lot  of  the  weight  of  this  house  is  over 
 on  this  left  side  so  we've  got  the 
 twostory  we've  got  the  giant  garage  you 
 know  it's  got  a  lot  of  weight  of  the 
 house  over  there  so  having  something 
 with  some  substance  was  so  important  to 
 kind  of  give  us  kind  of  good  balance  so 
 that's  what  this  ending  point  did  we've 
 got  these  two  Royal  Palms  here  and  then 
 we  transplanted  an  existing  Holly  that 
 they  had  in  the  garden  as  a  nice  little 
 backdrop  to  kind  of  give  the  Royal  Palms 
 a  little  bit  of 
 underplanting  another  tear  underneath  of 
 it  and  it's  such  a  big  tree  it's  funny 
 that  the  Holly  itself  you  think  it's  so 
 huge  it  make  a  bed  by  itself  but  it  it 
 becomes  a  backdrop  when  you're  dealing 
 with  Royal  Palms  so  it's  going  to  do 
 good  at  thickening  up  and  become  a  nice 
 kind  of  green  cone-shaped  wall 
 underneath  those  uh  Royals  and  then 
 because  the  yard  extends  out  so  far  we 
 ended  up  doing  another  Island  over  on 
 this  corner  my  clients  really  wanted  it 
 to  feel  like  they  got  to  see  the  whole 
 yard  the  whole  yard  was  their  property 
 and  having  a  trio  of  Royal  Palms  there 
 with  a  very  similar  color  palette  as  we 
 have  through  the  rest  of  the  garden  kind 
 of  Lent  to  the  feeling  of  more  of  an 
 estate  planting  where  you  know  you've 
 got  a  you've  got  an  island  as  far  out  to 
 the  property  line  as  possible  that 
 matches  kind  of  your  Landscaping  within 
 your  your  house  lines  it  just  ties  it 
 all  together  so  you  guys  who  you  have  a 
 bigger  deeper  front  front  yard  you  know 
 it  doesn't  mean  that  you  have  to  have  a 
 giant  big  bed  along  the  house  maybe 
 simplify  that  bed  along  the  house  and 
 add  some  impact  over  you  know  at  the 
 corner  of  the  property  line  and  kind  of 
 maybe  Branch  the  colorings  together  but 
 kind  of  make  that  your  fun  elaborate 
 focal  point  if  you  don't  want  Big  Trees 
 near  the  house  it's  just  there's  just  so 
 many  different  ways  to  play  with  it  it 
 doesn't  have  to  be  a  connected  path  it 
 could  totally  be  hot  spots  so  you  know 
 take  a  look  at  your  house  take  a  picture 
 of  your  house  and  kind  of  see  where  your 
 empty  or  bear  spots  are  and  say  I  kind 
 of  see  where  we  could  you  know  place 
 this  or  place  that  and  create  some 
 Island  Pockets  to  to  make  it  all  come 
 together  really  well  and  use  your  whole 
 yard  we  pay  tax  on  it  I  say  use  it  make 
 it  a  garden  all  right  you  guys  so  that 
 about  does  it  for  today  I  hope  I  gave 
 you  a  good  list  of  plants  and  trees  that 
 um  you  know  that  you  like  that  you  might 
 work  with  in  your  own  garden  if  you  run 
 across  any  questions  then  please 
 definitely  leave  in  the  comments  down 
 below  Bryce  and  I  work  full-time  jobs  so 
 sometimes  it  takes  us  a  little  bit  of 
 time  to  get  back  to  your  questions  but 
 we  do  try  because  we  know  how  important 
 it  is  those  of  you  guys  who  take  the 
 time  to  answer  the  questions  that  come 
 up  on  the  feed  you  guys  who  are 
 gardeners  you  guys  who  have  been  doing 
 this  you  guys  who  have  been  making  these 
 mistakes  in  the  past  and  want  to  save 
 others  from  doing  it  and  you  take  that 
 time  and  you  write  back  to  them  before 
 we  get  a  chance  to  it  is  so  very  helpful 
 thank  you  so  much  I  just  love  that  about 
 this  community  that  you  guys  look  out 
 for  one  another  because  we  know  gardian 
 of  Florida  it  has  its  challenges  it's 
 tough  so  you  know  if  you  come  across 
 anything  kind  of  like  what  we  did  here 
 where  we  had  to  overcome  a  parking  lot 
 in  their  front  yard  if  you  had  something 
 like  that  where  you  had  to  overcome  this 
 or  overcome  that  and  you  have  a  good 
 solution  for  it  please  pop  it  in  the 
 comments  down  below  it  could  help 
 someone  so  much  who  is  just  at  their 
 witz  end  of  gardening  and  as  we  all  know 
 gardening  it's  expensive  it's  a  it's 
 work  you  know  it's  a  beautiful  beautiful 
 thing  but  it's  also  it  takes  a  lot  of 
 good  energy  and  a  lot  of  work  and  I 
 guess  that's  what  makes  us  so  proud  to 
 walk  through  it  and  see  it  when  we  pull 
 into  our  driveways  you  know  because  we 
 know  it  took  to  make  this  space  our  own 
 all  right  you  guys  so  if  you  enjoy 
 today's  video  and  this  is  your  thing 
 this  is  what  you  like  to  see  then  please 
 subscribe  hit  that  notification  Bell  WE 
 Post  every  single  weekend  and  we  try  to 
 you  know  do  tips  and  tricks  and 
 gardening  we  talk  about  gardening 
 projects  that  we've  done  we  talk  about 
 problems  that  we've  overcame  we  tried  to 
 do  everything  gardening  and  hopes  that 
 it  is  something  that  that  you  guys  enjoy 
 watching  you  can  learn  from  and  it  helps 
 build  this  beautiful  community  that  we 
 have  here  so  take  care  I  will  see  you  in 
 the  very  next  Garden  Tour  check  out  our 
 most  recent  Garden  Tour  we  will  have  one 
 linked  somewhere  over  here  and  I  will 
 see  you  guys  next  week  take  care

---

 well  hello  gardeners  welcome  back 
 Jennifer  bevans  here  or  you  guys  might 
 know  me  as  your  true  Gardener  we  are 
 back  in  my  yard  yet  again  today  Zone  10A 
 Vero  Beach  Florida  and  today  we're  we're 
 debunking  some  myths  so  um  most  of  you 
 guys  know  that  I  am  a  landscape  designer 
 and  have  been  one  for  25  years  and  I 
 have  come  across  several  things  that  my 
 clients  have  asked  me  that  they've  been 
 doing  um  in  their  Gardens  that  they 
 thought  for  sure  was  for  the  health  and 
 the  benefit  of  their  Gardens 
 unfortunately  I  had  to  be  the  bearer  bad 
 news  and  say  well  that  works  but  that 
 doesn't  this  works  but  that  doesn't  it's 
 kind  of  like  those  family  recipes  that 
 get  passed  down  some  of  them  are  right 
 on  point  some  of  them  you  know  not  so 
 much  so  you  know  I  wanted  to  share  with 
 you  guys  some  of  the  most  common  ones 
 and  hopes  that  this  might  save  you  guys 
 some  time  and  money  in  your  own  Gardens 
 but  before  we  get  started  you  guys  be 
 sure  to  like  And  subscribe  if  this  is 
 your  jam  if  this  is  the  kind  of  content 
 that  you  guys  like  to  see  we  post  a 
 video  every  single  weekend  we  talk  about 
 you  know  the  landscapes  we  talk  about 
 Gardens  we  talk  about  things  that  thrive 
 things  that  don't  we  try  to  give  as  much 
 advice  as  possible  and  then  occasionally 
 we  do  a  garden  tour  on  some  of  the 
 projects  that  that  we  put  together  so 
 that  way  you  guys  are  it's  all  around 
 gardening  on  this  channel  so  if  this  is 
 your  thing  then  please  like  subscribe 
 and  hit  that  little  notification  Bell 
 and  uh  we'll  pop  up  every  single  weekend 
 on  your  feed  but  for  right  now  we  are 
 going  to  jump  into  the  five  most  common 
 myths  that  I've  run  across  in  the  garden 
 so  the  first  one  being  watering  or  maybe 
 I  should  say  overwatering  so  I  I  get 
 this  question  all  the  time  my  plants  are 
 not  looking  great  and  I  water  like 
 clockwork  every  single  day  like  they  say 
 to  do  in  Florida  I  I  hit  that  irrigation 
 or  I  add  plant  add  water  to  my  garden 
 and  and  it's  just  not  doing  the  trick 
 for  it  so  it  is  it's  common  to  say  to 
 water  every  day  is  ideal  for  maybe  10  or 
 15  minutes  that  gives  the  plants  a 
 little  bit  of  drink  throughout  their  hot 
 hot  season  of  our  floor  to  heat  but 
 overwatering  every  day  is  actually  more 
 harm  than  good  you  want  to  make  sure  to 
 water 
 2  to  3  days  a  week  in  the  Florida  sun 
 and  then  do  a  deeper  watering  so  you 
 want  that  kind  of  water  to  be  on  for 
 more  like  like  35  minutes  to  an  hour  two 
 to  three  days  a  week  is  going  to  allow 
 the  roots  to  grow  deep  and  go  down  to  to 
 grab  that  water  that  soaks  in  now  of 
 course  if  you  don't  have  well  draining 
 soil  that  might  be  a  little  bit 
 different  you  might  have  to  do  more 
 shallow  watering  but  for  most  of  us  in 
 our  coastal  areas  you  want  to  definitely 
 you  know  water  a  deeper  a  longer  time 
 frame  because  you  want  deep  not  shallow 
 roots  and  that  really  makes  a  big 
 difference  during  our  hurricane  season 
 our  crazy  winds  during  the  winter  months 
 as  you  can  probably  see  a  little  bit  of 
 that  today  in  today's  video  and  then  of 
 course  our  cold  snaps  so  the  deeper  The 
 Roots  the  more  insulated  they  are  into 
 the  heat  of  that  Florida  Sun  my  average 
 Garden  here  and  I  tell  my  clients  after 
 the  plans  have  established  to  water 
 about  every  2  to  three  days  for  35 
 minutes  to  up  to  an  hour  depending  on 
 the  location  if  it's  more  in  the  Sun  or 
 not  so  that's  going  to  be  just  a  a 
 longterm  turn  better  fit  for  stronger 
 plants  that  can  withstand  Sun  winds  and 
 of  course  cold  temps  but  here's  a  little 
 tip  on  how  to  know  if  you're 
 overwatering  so  when  you're  noticing 
 that  your  plants  have  a  little  bit  of  uh 
 Browning  edges  or  a  yellow  tone  to  the 
 leaf  a  lot  of  time  it  is  just  getting  so 
 washed  out  with  so  much  water  it  it's 
 tough  because  when  you're  underwatering 
 they  kind  of  droop  and  they  kind  of  have 
 a  a  Browning  tinge  to  them  so  it  it  it 
 can  be  a  bit  challenging  but  if  you  see 
 kind  of  a  yellow  happy  kind  of  looking 
 plant  definitely  one  that  is  pretty  weak 
 in  stem  then  you'll  know  that  that's 
 just  it's  just  getting  way  too  much 
 water  or  the  fact  that  your  plants  and 
 trees  are  growing  just  way  too  fast  then 
 they're  kind  of  shooting  straight  up 
 because  they  have  such  a  shallow  root 
 system  all  of  their  energy  is  going 
 straight  up  so  you  want  to  make  sure 
 that  they're  kind  of  pushing  doing  the 
 work  to  get  down  below  and  that's  where 
 they're  they're  throwing  that  energy  for 
 for 
 growth  no  no  no  over  pruning  is  a  thing 
 you  guys  so  this  is  myth  number  two  to 
 pruning  makes  everything  Lush  beautiful 
 and  keeps  it  so  so  controlled  in  your 
 tropical  garden  however  overp  pruning 
 can  do  more  harm  than  good  so  there  are 
 certain  months  out  of  the  year  that  I 
 prune  my  entire  landscape  and  I  stick  to 
 this  unless  I  see  something  you  know  a 
 brown  Lim  or  here  and  there  but  overall 
 pruning  I  stick  to  the  months  of  March 
 June  September  and  December  those  are 
 the  time  frames  where  it  gives  the  plant 
 enough  time  to  flush  out  but  once  you 
 start  pruning  that  plant  back  in  those 
 months  it  lets  new  air  come  in  it  really 
 helps  with  um  just  kind  of  keeping  any 
 kind  of  fungus  or  any  kind  of  problems 
 from  really  encroaching  into  that  area 
 but  think  of  this  every  time  that  you 
 prune  you  allow  kind  of  an  open  sore  for 
 disease  or  pest  or  bugs  to  come  in  so 
 over  pruning  if  you're  out  there  and 
 you're  uh  like  some  of  my  clients  who 
 are  are  fabulous  you  know  they're  like 
 new  parents  after  a  new  Landscaping  goes 
 in  and  they're  like  okay  it  looks  so 
 great  we  want  to  stay  looking  great  so 
 every  weekend  or  every  other  weekend 
 they're  out  there  with  their  Clippers 
 and  they're  just  touching  and  nipping 
 and  tucking  things  in  the  garden  to  keep 
 it  looking  just  like  that  and  although  I 
 love  their  you  know  ferocity  in  the 
 garden  it  acts  as  more  harm  than  good 
 and  so  I  have  to  explain  to  them  that 
 same  thing  definitely  pruning  is 
 important  to  keep  shape  and  create 
 lushness  but  doing  it  at  the  appropriate 
 times  is  what  where  really  really 
 matters  so  you  definitely  want  to  hit 
 those  months  of  March  June  September  and 
 December  that's  the  kind  of  the  range 
 that  I  work  with  and  it's  kind  of 
 averages  out  to  every  70  to  90  days  is 
 that  kind  of  time  frame  and  if  we  get 
 more  more  rain  or  you  know  more  of  the 
 storms  that  come  in  and  then  you  might 
 have  to  bump  that  up  just  a  little  bit 
 because  of  what  you  see  in  the  garden 
 but  pruning  just  a  prune  is  definitely 
 off  the  list  for  keeping  your  plants 
 healthy  and  strong  so  I  want  to  pop  in 
 here  real  quick  as  we're  going  through 
 this  video  I  hope  you  guys  are  finding 
 it  helpful  but  I  did  want  to  mention 
 that  we  are  a  landscape  design  and 
 installation  company  if  you  guys  need 
 more  um  than  just  a  little  bit  of  info 
 and  doing  a  little  bit  more  than  just 
 research  on  what  you're  what  you  need 
 for  your  Gardens  then  reach  out  to  us 
 because  we  designed  and  install 
 beautiful  gardens  all  along  the  treasure 
 and  Space  Coast  I'll  put  all  of  our 
 contact  information  down  below  give  us  a 
 shout  and  see  if  we  work  in  your  area  so 
 mythbusted  number  three  are  I  love  water 
 in  my  garden  but  they  draw  mosquitoes 
 everywhere  so  I  know  we're  in  Florida 
 and  mosquitoes  are  definitely  something 
 that  we  def  we  don't  want  to  invite  into 
 our  yard  especially  if  you're  like  me 
 and  you  live  outside  so  it  is  true  water 
 stagnant  water  will  invite  mosquitoes  to 
 lay  their  little  babies  and  uh  create  a 
 mosquito  heaven  for  them  but  you'll 
 notice  in  all  of  my  features  I  have 
 movement  in  my  water  so  if  you  guys  want 
 water  and  don't  sleep  on  it  water  in  the 
 garden  is  awesome  but  just  make  sure 
 that  you  have  movement  in  that  water 
 that  you  have  running  water  now  my 
 fountains  that  I  have  are  what  we  call 
 disappearing  water  fountains  so  there  is 
 a  Basin  down  below  underneath  the  ground 
 that's  where  it  holds  the  water  below 
 ground  it  circulates  or  a  pump  pushes  it 
 up  to  the  Fountain  and  then  it  flows 
 down  below  so  just  kind  of  keep  in  mind 
 whatever  fountain  that  you  choose  even 
 if  it's  not  one  that  goes  underneath  the 
 ground  if  it's  you  know  one  that  you 
 pick  up  from  a  nursery  or  Home  Depot  or 
 Lowe's  or  something  you  want  to  make 
 sure  that  the  water  is  more  like  Niagara 
 Falls  versus  a  big  lake  out  there  so  you 
 want  to  make  sure  it's  not  one  of  those 
 big  bowls  where  it's  a  kind  of  just  a 
 little  trickle  water  syst  sits  and  then 
 eventually  flows  over  you  want  to  put  in 
 a  decent  Siz  pump  to  push  that  water 
 through  faster  maybe  oversize  the  pump 
 so  that  way  you're  you're  getting 
 movement  and  getting  water  in  there  now 
 I  have  a  a  friend  who  has  um  found 
 really  cool  pots  and  plugged  the  holes 
 filled  it  with  water  and  put  in  like 
 water  lies  or  put  in  um  water  grasses  in 
 there  just  to  just  to  have  a  little 
 touch  of  water  throughout  the  garden  but 
 she  has  to  put  those  donuts  in  all  the 
 time  I  think  that's  what  they're  called 
 mosquito  Donuts  we  see  I  don't  have  to 
 use  them  so  I  don't  know  what  they  are 
 but  it  does  prevent  or  help  prevent  them 
 through  the  garden  but  I  prefer  the 
 movement  and  the  sound  of  running  water 
 so  if  that's  kind  of  your  thing  and 
 that's  what  you've  got  out  there  there's 
 great  solar  bubblers  that  you  can  use  to 
 put  in  there  that  kind  of  gets  that 
 water  moving  a  little  bit  it's  still  not 
 going  to  completely  take  away  that 
 mosquito  option  unless  you  have 
 something  that  like  I  said  that's  more 
 of  like  pushing  water  up  and  over  you 
 want  it  you  want  it  to  where  they're  not 
 going  to  be  able  to  sit  in  in  that 
 stagnant  water  and  and  not  move  you  want 
 to  make  sure  that  it's  like  it's  it's 
 just  an  uninviting  place  for  them  to  be 
 and  then  you're  great  you're  golden  you 
 can  create  water  in  your  garden  and  you 
 don't  have  to  worry  about  the  bugs 
 encroaching  in  on  you  all  right  for  tip 
 number  four  you  guys  is  weed  fabric  will 
 prevent  weeds  from  coming  into  my  garden 
 so  definitely  put  your  weed  fabric  down 
 and  then  plant  your  plants  no  there  is  a 
 time  and  a  place  for  weed  barrier  weed 
 fabric  I  use  it  for  places  kind  of  like 
 you  just  see  right  here  for  places  that 
 are  going  to  be  a  walkway  area  where  I'm 
 going  to  put  stone  or  even  in  stone  beds 
 because  it  has  it  has  a  it  it  serves  as 
 a  really  really  good  purpose  for  those 
 things  if  you're  going  to  use  weed 
 fabric  in  this  particular  situation  you 
 want  to  make  sure  that  you  really  do  a 
 good  job  of  grading  that  area  out  the 
 worst  thing  that  you  can  do  is  put  weed 
 fabric  over  kind  of  a  lumpy  or  bumpy 
 area  because  the  first  thing  that  it'll 
 do  is  those  little  lumps  and  bumps 
 they'll  Pock  it  with  soil  or  they'll 
 pocket  with  water  either  one  or  worse  it 
 clogs  the  area  up  and  then  it  creates 
 just  a  magn  for  weeds  in  those 
 particular  spots  you  want  it  to  look 
 like  a  Marine's  bed  you  want  it  to  be 
 kind  of  nice  and  and  tight  and  then  that 
 way  it's  all  fully  pinned  and  then  then 
 your  material  goes  on  top  of  that  and  it 
 kind  of  becomes  a  nice  level  playing 
 Ground  even  if  there's  a  grade  shift  you 
 just  want  to  make  sure  that  grade  shift 
 is  nice  and  smooth  and  there's  no  lumps 
 and  bumps  in  there  that  is  90%  of  the 
 time  how  I  use  my  weed  fabric  now  if  you 
 are  going  to  do  a  landscaping  bed  and 
 rock  is  included  and  it  is  more  of  the 
 tough  Tropicals  that  we're  working  with 
 and  you  can  absolutely  use  weed  fabric 
 there  because  you  need  the  fabric  there 
 to  for  the  The  Rock  to  sit  on  top  of  so 
 again  you  want  to  make  sure  that  is 
 grated  but  that  that  does  a  really  good 
 job  of  keeping  your  rock  in  place  Bryce 
 if  you'll  pan  over  here  to  the  side  then 
 you'll  be  able  to  see  kind  of  what  I'm 
 talking  about  kind  of  where  we  did  our 
 our  Rock  beds  so  things  that  are  tough 
 like  you  see  my  little  plant  groupings  I 
 allowed  them  to  be  in  the  Rock  bed  where 
 there  is  weed  matting  but  all  of 
 everything  else  else  in  my  garden  that 
 is  mulch  based  that  is  grouped  planting 
 that  is  a  nice  thick  group  layer  I 
 wanted  it  to  have  the  healthiest 
 environment  ever  and  that  is  a  mulch  bed 
 mulch  holds  moisture  mulch  breaks  down 
 and  it  goes  into  the  soil  and  really 
 helps  the  soil  nutrients  over  time  as  it 
 breaks  down  now  if  you  put  mulch  over 
 top  of  weed  barrier  it  does  the  exact 
 same  thing  it  breaks  down  but  then  it 
 becomes  a  pretty  much  weed  bed  for  new 
 seedlings  so  all  the  seedlings  that  drop 
 or  get  blown  in  lay  on  top  of  that  mulch 
 Bed  above  your  weed  matting  and  before 
 you  know  it  you  just  got  little  seed 
 Pockets  everywhere  so  save  your  money 
 and  your  time  on  not  doing  that  if 
 you're  going  to  create  more  of  a  lush 
 Landscaping  like  you  see  here  busting 
 myth  number  five  palm  trees  in  Florida 
 do  not  need  fertilizer  okay  so  I  can 
 understand  where  that  comes  from  we  do 
 live  in  a  beautiful  place  for  palm  trees 
 the  perfect  place  I  think  but  pal  trees 
 do  need  pottassium  and  magnesium  for  for 
 their  natural  deficiencies  they  have  a 
 tendency  to  go  a  little  bit  yellow  on 
 you  especially  in  our  soil  conditions  so 
 modifying  that  for  them  really  makes  the 
 most  beautiful  fronds  it  really  kind  of 
 helps  them  from  getting  that  yellow  tone 
 or  tint  to  them  that  you  see  in  a  lot  of 
 Florida  gardens  so  it's  absolutely 
 important  I  use  8212  as  a  it's  called 
 8212  Palm  gain  I  use  that  throughout  my 
 whole  garden  not  just  my  palm  trees  I 
 feel  like  that's  a  great  mixture  to  give 
 all  of  my  Tropicals  they  eat  it  up  they 
 love  it  I  really  really  get  good  color 
 from  everything  with  that  mix  however  I 
 have  heard  from  clients  um  in  the  past 
 who  swear  by  Epsom  salts  you  know 
 they'll  go  out  and  they'll  just  sprinkle 
 epson  salts  around  their  palm  trees  and 
 their  Tropicals  and  they've  had  just 
 great  luck  with  that  now  I  do  I  do 
 believe  that  if  your  soil  is  deficient 
 in  magnesium  and  adding  some  magnesium 
 sulfate  to  that  would  definitely  benefit 
 that  but  I  do  want  to  kind  of  say  that 
 with  the  Clause  because  if  your  soil 
 isn't  that  way  and  you  add  it  to  it  and 
 you  add  it  to  it  over  time  then  you 
 actually  deplete  the  soil  of  a  lot  of 
 the  nutrients  that  it  needs  as  it  breaks 
 that  down  so  you  want  to  make  sure  that 
 you  don't  add  it  unless  it's  absolutely 
 necessary  if  if  you  do  you're  causing 
 yourself  much  larger  problems  in  the 
 future  because  modifying  and  and  and 
 bringing  your  soil  up  to  certain  pH 
 levels  is  so  much  harder  than  just 
 maintaining  a  good  level  it  can  take  up 
 to  years  to  do  that  versus  just  adding 
 your  natural  granular  fertilizer  you 
 know  three  to  four  times  a  year  and 
 that's  kind  of  how  I  do  it  during  my 
 trimming  Cycles  which  is  March  June 
 September  and  December  I'll  hit 
 everything  with  fertilizer  in  one  one 
 weekend  in  those  months  and  then  that 
 way  I  just  know  everything  has  got  what 
 it  needs  it's  just  got  its  flu  shot  it's 
 immune  shot  whatever  you  want  to  call  it 
 everything  does  super  super  well  during 
 that  time  of  the  during  that  time  of  the 
 year  it's  my  go-to  time  frame  and  I 
 absolutely  stand  behind  you  know 
 fertilizing  your  garden  it  just  makes 
 such  a  difference  with  your  long-term 
 term  benefits  and  keeping  that  soil  just 
 at  the  right  levels  that  you  need  to 
 keep  it  it's  just  like  our  bodies  we  all 
 need  certain  things  to  flourish  our 
 Gardens  du  too  all  right  you  guys  so 
 that  does  it  for  today's  video  please 
 comment  if  these  myths  have  helped  you 
 and  if  more  importantly  if  you  have 
 myths  that  you've  uh  thought  were  true 
 and  and  turned  out  to  be  um  a  big  waste 
 of  money  then  share  it  in  the  comment 
 section  down  below  as  people  read 
 through  I  think  it  is  so  important  for 
 us  to  kind  of  you  know  stop  people  from 
 wasting  some  of  their  money  or  some  of 
 their  time  if  especially  for  a  lot  of 
 these  new  gardeners  that  are  coming  to 
 Florida  we  can  really  help  them  out  in 
 that  case  for  the  rest  of  you  gardeners 
 who  are  true  Gardener  fans  and  please 
 check  out  our  store  link  down  below  we 
 have  our  t-shirts  hats  wine  glasses  and 
 Bry  has  worked  so  hard  to  make  them  all 
 come  about  and  if  you  guys  would  like 
 one  then  check  that  out  down  below  if 
 you  guys  enjoyed  today's  video  then 
 check  out  our  last  video  it  is  10  tips 
 for  you  di  wires  out  there  on  what  how 
 to  create  a  beautiful  tropical  garden  on 
 a  budget  thanks  for  watching  and  take 
 care  there

---

 well  hello  gardeners  welcome  back  as  you 
 can  see  we  are  back  in  my  backyard  here 
 in  Vero  Beach  Florida  Zone  10A  and  we're 
 going  to  talk  about  10  tips  that  I  can 
 share  with  you  guys  to  create  well  kind 
 of  create  a  space  like  I  have  back  here 
 you  guys  have  been  so  so  complimentary 
 on  you  know  my  garden  and  that  jungle 
 vibe  that  I  have  going  on  so  I  thought 
 you  know  let  me  let  me  give  you  10  tips 
 from  over  25  years  of  experience  as  a 
 landscape  designer  on  how  I  um  how  I 
 create  these  kind  of  gardens  how  I 
 create  this  kind  of  feel  and  in  hopes 
 that  might  be  something  you  guys  can 
 take  away  and  you  diyers  out  there  might 
 want  to  get  started  and  kind  of  create 
 this  space  for  yourselves  but  for  those 
 of  you  guys  who  are  needing  even  more 
 then  please  like  subscribe  and  you  know 
 that  little  notification  Bell  that  you 
 guys  have  hit  that  because  I  just 
 recently  found  out  that  one  of  my 
 all-time  clients  a  person  I've  done  work 
 for  hello  James  did  not  know  that  I  had 
 videos  coming  out  every  single  weekend 
 so  now  I  want  to  make  sure  that  every  is 
 aware  Please  Subscribe  and  hit  that 
 notification  Bell  and  then  that  way  you 
 guys  will  see  every  video  that  we  have 
 coming  out  every  single  weekend  all 
 right  so  let's  Jump  Right  In  All  right 
 so  tip  number  one  is  starting  from  the 
 ground  up  so  as  we  know  our  soil 
 especially  here  in  Florida  is  not  the 
 best  so  amending  your  soil  is  huge 
 especially  if  it's  you  have  a  blank 
 slate  to  work  with  kind  of  get  some  of 
 that  soil  out  bring  in  some  new 
 nutrients  my  favorite  soil  mixture  that 
 I  use  on  a  large  scale  for  all  of  our 
 projects  is  is  50%  Black  Cow  25%  Pete 
 Moss  and  about  25%  pine  bark  nuggets  so 
 now  if  you  guys  are  in  your  development 
 sometimes  that  soil  does  not  drain  you 
 might  want  to  up  that  pine  bark  mulch  um 
 so  that  way  you  get  excessive  draining 
 you  really  really  get  that  soil  moving 
 and  and  really  helps  with  that  breakdown 
 and  that  micronutrients  in  the  soil  so 
 getting  your  soil  established  even  if 
 you  haven't  done  the  first  plant  or  tree 
 in  your  garden  kind  of  starting  there  is 
 going  to  be  crucial  it's  going  to  be  the 
 thing  that's  really  really  going  to  get 
 your  G  off  to  its  biggest  success  so  tip 
 number  two  guessing  you  could  guess  it 
 it's  your  anchors  it's  your  big  tree 
 material  start  there  when  you're  looking 
 at  your  space  make  sure  that  you  get 
 your  your  columns  your  your  foundation 
 in  so  um  it's  kind  of  like  the  bones  of 
 the  garden  so  bring  your  palm  trees  in 
 bring  your  your  upper  canopy  trees 
 whether  it's  you  know  Oaks  or  or 
 whatever  it  might  be  that's  going  to 
 kind  of  create  that  that  roof  line  for 
 your  for  your  garden  so  I  um  I  like 
 starting  with  fast  growing  trees 
 especially  if  I'm  working  with  a  blank 
 slate  so  for  my  own  garden  I  started 
 with  fast  growing  trees  like  these 
 coconut  palms  here  a  Palms  traveler 
 Palms  those  are  all  things  that  gosh  you 
 a  blink  of  an  eye  and  it's  like  whoh  you 
 know  so  start  with  some  bigger  material 
 and  that'll  leave  you  room  so  as  those 
 trees  grow  and  you  get  that  under  canopy 
 of  clearance  you  get  pretty  much  a  trunk 
 then  you  can  kind  of  pop  in  really 
 interesting  features  really  interesting 
 trees  that  might  need  a  little  a  little 
 bit  more  Protection  keep  in  mind  your 
 microclimates  you  know  we're  in  we're  in 
 Florida  we  have  tons  and  tons  of  sun 
 tons  of  heat  tons  of  wind  and  then  once 
 in  a  while  that  cold  snaps  so  when  you 
 can  kind  of  create  an  overhead  canopy 
 for  things  then  you  can  bring  in  some 
 more  specialty  items  some  more 
 interesting  features  and  they're 
 protected  because  of  that  big  material 
 so  um  so  don't  don't  you  know  think 
 about  a  coconut  palm  gosh  it's  only 
 beautiful  for  a  few  years  and  then  it's 
 up  and  over  it's  when  it's  up  and  over 
 that  you  get  to  bring  in  more  material 
 so  that's  why  Gardens  are  always 
 evolving  so  start  with  maybe  some  fast 
 growing  trees  get  your  garden  started 
 and  then  start  plugging  and  playing  from 
 there  so  for  tip  number  three  that  is 
 creating  your  canvas  creating  your  your 
 backdrop  your  walls  so  if  your  um 
 Landscaping  is  is  similar  to  mine  and 
 it's  kind  of  um  serving  as  dual  Duty  as 
 that  Tropical  Oasis  that  you  want  to 
 recreate  but  also  um  kind  of  buffers  you 
 to  the  neighboring  areas  so  right  behind 
 us  here  is  a  large  pool  screen  um 
 several  houses  and  other  another 
 development  but  it  doesn't  feel  like 
 that  because  I  have  a  couple  green  Wall 
 Solutions  back  here  where  I've  created  a 
 barrier  so  you  want  to  make  sure  that 
 once  your  walls  or  your  structures  are 
 in  your  anchors  are  in  like  your  trees 
 then  you  go  ahead  and  kind  of  find  your 
 backdrop  your  line  that  could  be  kusia 
 it  could  be  uh  R  Palms  it  could  be  cat 
 PMS  like  what  I  have  it  could  even  be  a 
 fence  it  could  be  a  wall  of  some  sort 
 anything  that  kind  of  Def  findes  that 
 line  because  if  you  have  a  def  a 
 definite  line  or  a  backdrop  then  you're 
 not  using  tons  and  tons  of  plants  to 
 kind  of  give  yourself  kind  of  a  a  big 
 cluster  grouping  of  of  a  visual  you  know 
 if  you've  ever  kind  of  created  a  green 
 screen  then  everything  in  front  of  that 
 green  screen  just  pops  it  just  you  see 
 that  brights  and  reds  and  yellows  and 
 greens  and  and  all  that  color  you  see  it 
 but  if  you  don't  and  you  just  see 
 sunshine  or  backdrop  displays  behind  you 
 it  you  kind  of  lose  that  that  color 
 combination  so  even  if  what  you're  using 
 as  a  backdrop  is  just  boring  and  it's 
 green  something  like  calcia  hedge  don't 
 let  that  distract  you  because  it  just 
 means  that  you  get  to  do  some  fun  stuff 
 in  front  of  it  so  you  know  take  that 
 rear  backdrop  and  do  like  15  or  20  of 
 one  Dynamic  Color  and  then  another 
 section  of  a  maybe  a  lower  or  a  deeper 
 tone  in  color  because  that  green  screen 
 is  going  to  kind  of  create  that  canvas 
 it's  going  to  create  that  perfect 
 backdrop  to  let  whatever  is  in  front  of 
 it  just  shine  so  that  is  the  next  step 
 get  that  up  get  that  growing  let  that  be 
 your  backdrop  and  Bryce  had  mentioned 
 earlier  because  you  know  with  his 
 designs  he  says  even  areas  that  he's  not 
 creating  back  privacy  buffers  for  he's 
 making  sure  to  incorporate  things  like  a 
 pig  me  something  dense  behind  um  maybe  a 
 centerpiece  grouping  because  just  like  I 
 just  mentioned  before  whatever  you  put 
 in  front  of  that  dark  green  foliage  just 
 pops  just  shines  so  he'll  do  the  pygmy 
 just  like  a  supporting  character  in  a 
 cast  you  know  it's  just  to  make  the 
 stars  look  great  so  so  give  that  a  go 
 and  then  speaking  of  design  so  I  know 
 that  you  guys  if  you're  watching  a  tips 
 video  you're  looking  to  create  the  space 
 for  yourself  and  you're  researching 
 you're  getting  good  ideas  and  you're 
 doing  exactly  what  you  need  to  do  to 
 kind  of  not  just  get  some  information 
 but  get  the  motivation  to  kind  to  get 
 going  so  those  of  you  guys  who  know  I  am 
 a  landscape  designer  I  work  along  the 
 treasure  and  Space  Coast  we  do  landscape 
 design  and  installation  um  and  have  done 
 that  for  25  years  but  most  recently 
 we've  started  doing  designs  outside  our 
 area  so  for  you  diyers  out  there  and 
 you're  looking  to  create  that  perfect 
 space  for  yourself  and  you're  curious  to 
 know  if  we  create  designs  in  your  area  I 
 will  put  all  of  our  contact  information 
 down  below  you'll  talk  directly  to  my 
 daughter-in-law  Marissa  and  we  will  see 
 if  we  can  create  something  beautiful  in 
 your  area  but  now  let's  move  on  to  the 
 next  tip  so  now  we're  at  tip  four  so  tip 
 four  I  kind  of  alluded  to  this  in  the 
 previous  tip  but  it  is  the  next  step 
 after  your  anchors  are  in  your  backdrop 
 is  in  it's  time  to  start  decorating  it's 
 for  the  the  I  call  it  the  lipstick  and 
 mascara  of  the  planty  grouping  it's  kind 
 of  to  kind  of  create  some  color 
 groupings  and  then  rinse  and  repeat 
 those  color  grouping  so  that  way  you 
 have  a  solid  theme  so  if  you  guys  have 
 been  watching  my  videos  for  any  length 
 of  time  you  know  I  love  this  particular 
 plant  this  is  the  sesia  she  is 
 absolutely  a  stunner  in  my  garden 
 because  I  can  put  three  or  four  of  her 
 in  a  space  and  she  just  takes  over  that 
 area  thickens  up  and  just  becomes  a  dash 
 of  color  now  this  plant  needs  a  little 
 bit  of  sun  protection  protection  it  can 
 handle  Good  Morning  Sun  early  afternoon 
 sun  but  as  the  the  day  goes  on  with 
 afternoon  sun  it  can  Wilt  and  be  a 
 little  bit  unhappy  or  a  little  bleached 
 out  so  you  can  tell  by  having  this 
 bottle  Palm  as  my  anchor  tree  above  it 
 it  does  the  perfect  job  of  giving  it  the 
 the  perfect  location  to  live  kind  of 
 creating  a  grouping  of  four  or  five 
 plants  as  one  solid  grouping  letting 
 them  Clump  out  and  then  finding  a 
 pattern  that  you  really  do  like  and  you 
 know  bring  a  your  next  clumping  Plant 
 grouping  so  like  these  for  instance 
 these  ice  tones  they  grow  so  much  slower 
 than  sesia  so  my  sesia  are  always  going 
 to  be  a  little  bit  higher  than  the  next 
 grouping  which  is  my  my  croin  mix  and  I 
 love  that  these  are  slow  growing  I  trim 
 them  twice  a  year  I  mean  I  really  don't 
 have  to  do  a  whole  lot  to  them  because  I 
 know  my  laala  that's  behind  here  is  it's 
 just  just  takes  her  time  you  know  she 
 just  she  does  not  grow  very  fast  6  in 
 maybe  a  foot  if  you  really  really  treat 
 her  well  well  um  but  so  I  needed 
 something  that's  going  to  stay  a  little 
 bit  smaller  I  wouldn't  put  sesia  in 
 front  of  her  for  that  reason  so  kind  of 
 you  know  direct  your  Heights  that  way 
 Clump  your  your  first  grouping  your  next 
 grouping  should  be  a  little  bit  lower 
 and  then  your  next  grouping  if  you  can 
 make  it  a  little  bit  lower  like  I  love 
 these  Burl  marks  they  max  out  about  3 
 foot  so  they're  always  going  to  be  a 
 perfect  lower  Spiller  plant  so  we  have 
 these  upright  plant  groupings  here  drops 
 down  to  the  the  lower  groupings  here  but 
 what  a  nice  combination  they  they  make 
 together  and  then  the  farfugium  kind  of 
 do  the  same  thing  and  then  now  we  we're 
 back  with  the  the  sesia  so  you  kind  of 
 see  how  it's  a  rinse  and  repeat  and  then 
 if  you  look  at  my  other  side  of  my 
 garden  it  starts  over  there  with  a  a 
 similar  it's  a  croin  then  sesia  and  then 
 you  know  so  you  can  find  a  theme  without 
 it  being  boring  you  can  really  I  don't 
 know  it's  almost  like  like  a  perfect 
 song  you  know  you  kind  of  want  a  rhythm 
 so  you  want  something  with  a  little  bit 
 of  height  and  maybe  bright  colors  and 
 then  a  little  bit  of  dark  with  some 
 lower  colors  and  then  so  on  or  vice 
 versa  but  either  way  if  you  can  find 
 that  Rhythm  then  it's  just  something 
 about  making  a  garden  feel  peaceful  so 
 that's  always  what  I'm  looking  so  find 
 your  clumping  plants  and  then  start  to 
 kind  of  play  with  them  and  work  with 
 them  in  your  garden  now  I  will  mention  I 
 hear  this  and  see  this  a  lot  a  lot  of 
 people  will  put  one  or  two  plants  in  and 
 then  two  or  three  plants  next  to  it  that 
 are  maybe  different  plant  varieties 
 stick  with  one  plant  variety  for  your 
 clump  I  know  it  seems  especially  for 
 somebody  who  is  like  me  who  likes  a  lot 
 of  color  it  seems  great  to  kind  of  mix 
 in  a  bunch  of  different  varieties  in 
 there  but  if  you  do  one  swath  stop  it 
 and  do  another  swath  and  then  stop  and 
 then  you're  going  to  it's  just  going  to 
 feel  like  it  just  flows  so  much  nicer 
 and  still  gives  you  that  tropical  look 
 and  the  way  that  I  structure  my  plants  I 
 usually  put  them  in  groupings  more  than 
 three  I  know  that  I  know  it's  tempting 
 to  do  different  colors  and  different 
 varieties  to  kind  of  really  show  off  a 
 space  but  if  you  do  like  a  grouping  of 
 four  or  six  or  10  it  it  it  a  zigzag 
 pattern  or  if  you  have  to  do  and  it's  a 
 small  area  do  a  grouping  of  three  do  it 
 in  a  triangular  pattern  because  that 
 becomes  a  cluster  grouping  it  grows  so 
 well  together  instead  of  a  row  you  kind 
 of  want  to  get  away  from  that  row 
 planting  because  it's  so  easy  for  things 
 to  turn  into  a  hedge  so  either  stagger 
 back  and  forth  to  let  them  chunk  out 
 together  or  create  a  triangular 
 formation  where  that  point  goes  to  these 
 two  and  then  it  it  rounds  out  and 
 becomes  like  a  just  this  nice  big  pop  of 
 colorful  cluster  so  I  hope  that  helps 
 all  right  you  guys  so  we're  at  tip  five 
 so  tip  five  is  you  know  find  some 
 interesting  Leaf  patterns  or  something 
 dynamic  in  the  garden  find  a  spot  for 
 just  that  key  area  that  you  need  to  like 
 break  up  the  garden  if  you  got  all  of 
 this  just  beautiful  Palm  foliage  that's 
 there  find  something  that  has  the 
 opposite  kind  of  look  maybe  more  form 
 fitting  maybe  more  dynamic  or  maybe  more 
 round  Leaf  kind  of  like  this  like  this 
 or  these  or 
 this  or 
 this  all  right  you  guys  so  we  have  made 
 it  to  tip  six  so  tip  six  is  Interruption 
 tip  six  is  put  something  in  your  garden 
 um  that  kind  of  makes  you  kind  of  Peep 
 around  the  side  you  you'll  notice  I 
 mentioned  this  in  many  of  my  videos 
 because  it  is  one  of  those  things  that  I 
 try  to  incorporate  in  every  Garden  even 
 things  even  Gardens  that  are  very 
 similar  to  mine  where  it  is  a  long 
 extension  one  flat  area  and  then  when 
 you're  standing  up  at  my  deck  you  kind 
 of  just  see  it  as  one  long  expanse 
 having  some  Interruption  having  kind  of 
 a  little  bit  of  a  barrier  in  between  um 
 whether  it's  a  tree  or  a  potted  plant  or 
 something  that  just  kind  of  distracts 
 your  eye  from  seeing  around  it  brings 
 you  out  into  the  garden  so  much  more  so 
 because  I  have  such  kind  of  a  long 
 narrow  pathway  it  was  very  hard  to  do 
 that  it's  it's  much  easier  in  some  of 
 the  other  projects  that  I've  created  but 
 what  I  was  able  to  do  is  have  trees  that 
 kind  of  fold  out  into  that  walkway  so 
 when  you're  looking  down  my  garden  you 
 kind  of  see  where  my  bottle  Palms  kind 
 of  offer  a  little  bit  of  interruption  to 
 kind  of  see  around  and  underneath  I've 
 created  plant  grouping  on  my  opposite 
 side  along  my  wall  that  kind  of  pop  out 
 with  some  Boulders  that  create  a  little 
 bit  of  of  eye  intervention  that  way  when 
 you're  looking  down  there  you're  kind  of 
 like  what's  going  on  just  past  that  and 
 you  can  do  that  with  anything  you  can  do 
 that  with  bird  houses  you  can  do  that 
 I've  done  that  with  my  stained  glass  um 
 work  and  I  I  I  love  just  kind  of  seeing 
 someplace  for  your  eye  to  just  kind  of 
 stop  and  rest  that  draws  you  so  much 
 further  out  and  not  only  does  it  kind  of 
 bring  you  out  into  the  garden  to  want  to 
 walk  that  path  but  it  also  it  makes  your 
 area  feel  so  much  larger  I  don't  know  if 
 you've  seen  different  Gardens  and  when 
 I'm  designing  like  little  narrow 
 Pathways  I'll  put  in  like  a  little  table 
 and  chairs  surrounded  by  some  plants  or 
 trees  or  kind  of  nestled  into  an  area  so 
 that  way  it  instead  of  it  looking  like  a 
 corridor  it  almost  looks  like  there's 
 just  it  makes  that  a  little  interesting 
 space  that  break  makes  that  interesting 
 space  to  make  you  want  to  walk  to  that 
 space  and  then  beyond  so  no  matter  how 
 small  your  space  is  don't  don't  worry 
 about  making  it  smaller  by  incorporating 
 a  feature  water  feature  or  whatever  it 
 it  might  be  that  you  that  brings  you  out 
 that's  interactive  that  draws  you  out 
 into  that  space  put  that  item  right 
 there  slap  in  the  middle  to  where  you 
 have  to  kind  of  walk  around  it  to  get  to 
 the  rest  of  the  garden  because  it  just 
 kind  of  makes  it  feel  like  the  garden's 
 going  on  and  on  and  on  Botanical  Gardens 
 and  Resorts  do  that  to  such  a  tea  I  mean 
 it's  just  one  of  those  things  that  I 
 think  that  really  hit  home  with  me  that 
 that  made  me  feel  like  gosh  I'm  going  to 
 put  a  waterfall  here  engulf  it  and  then 
 you  kind  of  have  to  walk  to  this 
 destination  yeah  so  Interruption  is  a 
 big  thing  to  incorporate  into  your  new 
 design  or  into  your  landscape  so  tip 
 sev's  up 
 here  tip  seven  is  going  vertical  you 
 guys  so  the  benefit  of  some  of  these  big 
 palm  trees  or  oak  trees  or  whatever  big 
 that  you  have  in  your  in  your  yard  go 
 ahead  and  take  it  and  start  working  your 
 way  up  the  trunk  so  this  coconut  palm  is 
 obviously  well  above  my  view  line  when 
 I'm  sitting  down  so  I  chose  to  create 
 pretty  much  an  orchid  house  on  it  now 
 these  orchids  are  just  tied  to  the  trunk 
 I  use  some  Moss  to  kind  of  Disguise  the 
 zip  ties  that  I've  tied  to  it  if  you 
 guys  would  like  a  video  on  how  I  attach 
 these  orchids  please  let  me  know  in  the 
 comments  down  below  um  because  they  it 
 is  such  a  super  simple  thing  to  do  all 
 they  need  these  uh  phenopsis  need  a 
 little  bit  of  protection  from  the  Sun 
 and  they  bloom  so  so  much  and  these 
 blooms  last  for  months  so  if  you're  an 
 orchid  fan  or  you  just  like  like  this 
 big  pop  of  color  do  a  collection  of  your 
 favorite  colors  on  your  tree  trunks  and 
 they  will  ah  gosh  they'll  thank  you  for 
 it  you  can  do  that  with  so  many 
 different  things  so  if  you're  limited  on 
 Space  to  me  going  vertical  is  one  of  the 
 most  ideal  things  that  you  can  do  in  a 
 garden  I  have  done  that  in  very  very 
 small  areas  um  amongst  most  of  my 
 designs  so  um  I've  even  done  it  my  own 
 house  you  guys  have  seen  my  living  wall 
 that  I  have  I  had  a  really  narrow  space 
 on  the  side  of  my  house  right  along  um 
 my  bathroom  window  and  so  I  wanted 
 something  vertical  where  that  just  kind 
 of  didn't  shine  right  into  that  window 
 and  I  wanted  a  lot  of  impact  so  you  can 
 do  a  living  wall  that  goes  right  up  into 
 that  area  kind  of  create  something 
 really  interesting  along  a  walkway  or 
 utilize  a  space  like  this  which  is  a 
 tree  trunk  that  you  know  would  normally 
 just  be  a  tree  trunk  and  um  I'll  get  get 
 Bryce  to  pop  in  a  couple  pictures  of 
 using  vermil  ads  in  the  same  exact  way 
 you  can  use  vermil  ads  and  place  them  on 
 your  pygm  dat  Palms  just  let  them  climb 
 and  become  just  such  a  focal  point 
 because  they  give  you  color  all  year 
 long  and  trees  become  come  such  a  a 
 great  uh  framework  to  use  especially  if 
 they've  got  some  cool  trunk  lines  or  you 
 know  you  can  really  just  kind  of  you 
 know  use  your  imagination  um  to  really 
 just  make  your  living  wall  or  your 
 vertical  planting  super  super  enjoyable 
 and  it's  another  way  to  layer  without 
 having  to  layer  into  the  ground  so  um 
 tip  seven  is  is  one  of  my  favorites  I 
 absolutely  love  this  focal  point  I  love 
 that  it's  near  my  water  feature  and  I 
 love  that  it  would  have  been  normally 
 wasted  space  very  creative  thank  you 
 Bryce  Bryce  say  it's  very  creative  mom 
 tip  eight  you  guys  is  using  bold  colors 
 so  I  know  this  can  be  a  bit  tricky 
 because  in  most  garden  designs  you  know 
 when  you  go  to  school  you're  told  to  use 
 on  an  average  with  a  a  palette  of  a 
 landscape  you're  told  to  use  two  but  no 
 more  than  four  colors  so  that's  kind  of 
 your  you're  kind  of  going  rate  but  to  me 
 honestly  in  25  years  of  doing  this  the 
 more  color  the  merrier  I  absolutely  love 
 coloring  my  garden  now  that  being  said  I 
 I  understand  when  you  don't  have  a  big 
 space  to  work  with  you  might  want  to 
 work  with  a  certain  p  palette  to  kind  of 
 keep  it  very  easy  on  the  eyes  but  if  you 
 do  have  a  little  bit  more  room  to  work 
 than  having  clusters  of  different  bold 
 color  aspects  you  know  even  something 
 like  a  sesia  which  is  not  really  a  lot 
 of  color  it's  a  yellow  and  green  having 
 that  big  pop  next  to  some  Reds  or  some 
 purples  it  really  just  draws  the  eye 
 like  I  even  just  the  that  against  the 
 greens  to  me  is  a  a  color  grouping  that 
 stands  out  I  love  seeing  a  bright  yellow 
 with  a  dark  green  and  then  maybe  even  a 
 pop  of  purple  next  to  it  or  a  pop  of 
 blue  next  to  it  I  just  I  I  think  that's 
 so  fantastic  I  find  beauty  and  color 
 like  I  have  here  with  my  imperialis  per 
 milads  I  just  love  that  dark  vibrant  pop 
 that  they  offer  in  the  garden  and  so  I 
 will  be  happy  to  mix  those  with  Reds 
 which  I  know  that  that's  not  supposed  to 
 be  mixed  that  way  but  to  me 
 incorporating  these  with  some  beautiful 
 mamy  croin  and  then  some  dark  greens  and 
 some  yellows  I  just  think  that  really 
 really  pops  so  well  together  so  don't  be 
 afraid  to  bring  color  color  into  your 
 tropical  jungle  inspired  Garden  it  does 
 not  need  to  be  or  it  doesn't  have  to  be 
 I  guess  I  should  say  all  green  or  all 
 green  and  whites  or  all  green  and 
 yellows  it  can  really  have  a  nice 
 variation  of  Pops  of  interesting  color 
 just  make  sure  to  carry  it  through  your 
 garden  if  you're  going  to  have  purple 
 here  have  purple  somewhere  else  in  the 
 garden  if  you're  going  to  have  pink  here 
 have  pink  somewhere  else  in  the  garden 
 because  having  those  clusters  really  do 
 um  it's  like  it's  like  your  eyes  pick  up 
 patterns  when  you're  looking  at  a  space 
 and  it's  like  oh  okay  I'm  seeing  the 
 variation  even  if  it's  a  different 
 purple  it  doesn't  matter  as  long  as  it 
 has  that  same  kind  of  hue  to  it  it  just 
 feels  cohesive  it  brings  back  like  I 
 said  that  Rhythm  that  song  and  that's  at 
 least  in  my  experience  but  that  being 
 said  I  know  that  I've  been  in  this 
 business  a  long  time  um  that  you  guys 
 you  true  gardeners  out  there  I  see 
 comments  that  you  guys  respond  to  other 
 comments  I  thank  you  so  very  much 
 because  you  know  I  work  full-time  Bryce 
 Works  full-time  we  try  to  get  to  the 
 comments  when  we  can  but  those  of  you 
 guys  who  answer  other  people's  questions 
 or  you  know  pop  out  other  experiences 
 that  you've  had  in  your  garden  that 
 you've  had  success  with  that's  what 
 makes  this  community  so  amazing  to  be  a 
 part  of  because  I  love  reading  those 
 comments  I  love  hearing  you  know  pops  of 
 you  know  just  pops  of  thoughts  that  you 
 guys  had  and  the  experiences  that  you 
 had  in  your  garden  because  it  makes  such 
 a  difference  to  especially  the  newbies 
 especially  you  guys  that  are  new  to 
 Florida  who  are  like  what  you  know  it 
 just  it  makes  it  all  so  much  easier 
 getting  experiences  from  somebody  who's 
 been  here  10  years  or  five  years  or  had 
 made  that  mistake  already  so  any  of  you 
 guys  who  have  any  stories  or  any  kind  of 
 tidbits  or  points  or  anything  that  you 
 guys  can  share  with  other  gardeners 
 reading  these  comments  you're  truly 
 helping  the  whole  gardening  community  of 
 true  gardeners  so  thank  you  guys  so  much 
 I  definitely  want  to  shout  that  out  I 
 keep  forgetting  to  mention  that  in 
 videos  but  every  time  I  read  a  comment 
 like  that  I'm  like  yes  Gardener  so 
 thanks  so  much  for  that  but  now  to  the 
 next  tip  so  we  are  at  tip  number  nine 
 you  guys  tip  number  nine  is  bring  some 
 features  into  your  garden  so  this  is 
 kind  of  almost  like  a  Finishing  Touch 
 almost  like  you  know  just  the  little  bit 
 of  jewelry  to  the  Garden  so  in  my  case 
 is  I  love  statues  I  love  little  just 
 interesting  things  that  I've  collected 
 over  the  years  or  things  that  get  me  out 
 um  at  estate  sales  or  Marketplace  or 
 wherever  to  kind  of  just  to  Source  some 
 really  cool  interesting  things  that  I 
 think  are  going  to  really  work  in  my 
 garden  like  my  little  statue  here  I  love 
 that  she  is  up  above  my  the  paddles  of 
 these  beautiful  allocations  also  the 
 water  feature  that  I  have  here  where 
 it's  absolutely  just  kind  of  gives  you 
 that  bit  of  sound  that  bit  of 
 interaction  as  you're  walking  through 
 the  garden  anything  like  that  bird 
 houses  bird  feeders  stained  glass 
 hanging  art  old  windows  drapery  in  the 
 garden  anything  like  that  it  could  be 
 simple  as  a  collection  of  really  cool 
 pots  that  you  have  found  inter  just  and 
 kind  of  like  tuck  them  into  the  space 
 because  that  to  me  that  adds  the 
 personality  that  adds  something  that  you 
 found  attractive  somewhere  else  that  you 
 want  to  bring  home  and  make  it  a  part  of 
 your  space  this  is  your  relaxing  space 
 this  is  not  a  resort  this  is  not 
 somewhere  else  this  is  a  space  that 
 you've  taken  little  key  things  to  and 
 just  made  it  your  own  and  wanted  to 
 share  it  with  your  guests  and  your 
 family  and  the  people  that  come  to  enjoy 
 your  garden  with  you  so  anytime  that  you 
 can  incorporate  those  type  of  things  I 
 think  are  huge  so  so  that's  tip  nine  is 
 adding  key  features  that  you  have  found 
 and  finding  a  little  home  for  them  in 
 your  garden  so  now  we  are  off  to  tip  10 
 so  tip  10  you  guys  is  get  started  you 
 know  get  started  in  your  garden  because 
 it  a  lot  of  it  is  is  that  paralysis  of 
 what  what  to  do  where  to  get  going  where 
 to  start  sometimes  getting  started  with 
 just  these  few  facts  that  you  guys  pick 
 up  from  your  research  that  you've  done 
 then  will  get  you  kind  of  get  you  that 
 encouragement  kind  of  get  you  that  move 
 in  so  I  love  that  you're  here  with  me 
 today  and  you  guys  are  getting  that 
 inspiration  and  um  I  hope  that  I  hope 
 these  tips  help  please  list  in  the 
 comments  down  below  of  of  what  tips  that 
 helped  you  the  most  because  that  is  so 
 so  helpful  to  me  and  Bryce  and  then  um 
 you  know  just  kind  of  a  little  bit  of 
 update  on  where  you  are  in  your  garden 
 space  because  I  just  think  that  is  so 
 cool  to  be  a  part  of  I  know  we're  a  part 
 of  it  from  a  distance  but  I  do  feel  like 
 you  guys  your  comments  bring  me  closer 
 to  kind  of  what  you're  looking  for  what 
 you're  looking  to  see  and  then  sharing 
 that  same  experience  that  you  know  that 
 all  of  us  gardeners  like  we're  just  you 
 know  outdoorsy  people  and  people  that 
 like  to  get  out  and  out  outside  and  live 
 outside  which  I  think  is  so  important 
 here  in  Florida  so  if  that's  you  please 
 leave  in  the  comments  down  below  and  of 
 course  like  And  subscribe  because  we  put 
 out  a  video  every  single  weekend  and  the 
 videos  are  to  kind  of  do  this  you  know 
 talk  plants  talk  trees  get  dirty  so  for 
 those  of  you  guys  who  are  hardcore  true 
 gardeners  then  check  out  our  store  down 
 below  we  have  these  fantastic  hats  I 
 think  that  they  uh  look  fa  fabulous  they 
 come  in  so  many  different  colors  I'm 
 going  camo  today  because  I  mean  we're 
 jungle  inspired  VI  but  you  know  there 
 there's  so  many  different  colors  we've 
 got  some  wine  glasses  we've  got  some 
 coffee  mugs  we've  got  some  awesome 
 t-shirts  that  I  absolutely  love  um  then 
 check  those  out  because  I  love  to  see 
 those  true  gardeners  I've  run  across 
 some  in  the  stores  uh  recently  and  I 
 just  thought  that  was  so  fabulous  to  see 
 somebody  wearing  a  true  Gardener  shirt 
 so  thank  you  guys  so  much  for  supporting 
 us  and  um  we  so  appreciate  making  this 
 content  for  you  guys  and  I  hope  you  guys 
 enjoy  the  t-shirts  and  hats  and  cups  so 
 I  will  see  you  guys  next  weekend  in  our 
 very  next  video  take  care

---

 so  hello  plant  lovers  we  are  in  my 
 backyard  again  and  we  are  talking  Queens 
 well  Queen  Emma  kenam  Liles  I  absolutely 
 love  her  she's  been  in  my  garden  for 
 almost  16  years  and  she  is  just  a  staple 
 in  the  garden  I  Ed  her  in  a  couple 
 different  areas  and  has  battled  through 
 hurricanes  they  are  tough  tough  plants 
 they've  got  some  pros  they've  got  some 
 cons  we're  going  to  talk  about  both  of 
 those  here  today  and  then  I'm  going  to 
 share  with  you  how  I  go  overall  trimming 
 this  queen  Emma  again  she's  grown  to 
 almost  a  matur  height  of  around  7  feet 
 so  they  really  are  fabulous  for  an 
 individual  specimen  kind  of  like  you  see 
 here  where  you  can  kind  of  put  a  skirt 
 planting  around  it  and  then  they  do  kind 
 of  crown  out  just  like  you  see  here  now 
 a  lot  of  times  in  gardens  I  will  put  one 
 in  the  middle  and  two  on  the  corners  and 
 kind  of  create  more  of  a  halo  effect  you 
 know  just  kind  of  rounds  it  out  where 
 there's  um  a  lot  of  action  going  on  as  a 
 middle  focal  point  they're  fabulous  for 
 that  and  if  you're  going  to  do  landscape 
 lighting  do  not  forget  to  put  a  nice 
 wall  light  on  them  for  with  a  big  wide 
 lens  because  oh  my  goodness  that  makes 
 them  absolutely  stunning  at  night  you're 
 so  structural  you're  going  to  have  a 
 video  out  about  that  right  yes  and  Bryce 
 just  mentioned  that  we  actually  going  to 
 have  a  video  out  about  proper  placement 
 so  we'll  make  sure  to  stick  it  somewhere 
 in  one  of  these  Corners  so  that  way  you 
 guys  can  check  that  out  but  you  want  to 
 definitely  put  a  diffused  wall  light  on 
 these  guys  and  you  will  get  that 
 fantastic  kind  of  wide  Leaf  effect  and 
 it's  just  so  gorgeous  so  but  what  I  want 
 to  share  with  you  on  the  krom  they're 
 tough  they  can  handle  temperatures  all 
 the  way  into  the  high  20s  so  27  28  29 
 anything  below  that  you  definitely  want 
 to  cover  them  if  they're  in  environment 
 kind  of  like  what  you  see  here  I  mean  we 
 got  into  the  26  range  a  couple  years  ago 
 I  did  not  cover  my  plants  because  I'm 
 not  in  the  habit  of  covering  them  here 
 because  you  guys  if  you've  seen  my  my 
 garden  tours  you  know  it's  a  very 
 condensed  very  thick  planting  and  when 
 you  have  that  it  just  really  really 
 tucks  all  the  plants  into  their  own 
 natural  like  jungle  habitat  so  they're 
 really  nice  and  covered  in  general  so  so 
 I'm  fortunate  enough  to  have  some  really 
 selective  um  plants  that  normally  can't 
 handle  these  kind  of  temps  here  in  Duro 
 Beach  but  seem  to  do  super  super  well  in 
 this  environment  because  of  being  tucked 
 in  to  the  Garden  like  they  are  but  back 
 to  the  queen  herself  so  this  queen  Emma 
 and  I'll  get  behind  here  Bryce  so  you 
 can  kind  of  see  their  real  beauty  comes 
 from  the  actual  big  giant  leaves  as  you 
 can  see  I  mean  look  at  this  expance  of 
 this  Leaf  it's  absolutely  stunning  you 
 can  trim  this  guy  back  to  keep  it  nice 
 and  upright  or  you  can  allow  allow  it  to 
 unfold  and  pull  all  the  way  down  so  so 
 beautiful  they  do  provide  this  gorgeous 
 this  Bloom  well  this  one  isn't  gorgeous 
 cuz  it's  done  and  so  when  they're  done 
 just  like  this  I  um  I  just  nip  them  off 
 with  my  felos  here  and  it  is  a  pretty 
 significant  Bloom  look  at  the  size  of 
 this  but  you  guys  when  this  is  gorgeous 
 and  it's  covered  with  that  beautiful 
 flower  and  it's  sticking  straight  up 
 like  this  and  sometimes  there's  two  or  I 
 mean  sometimes  we  have  a  collection  of 
 of  one  or  two  of  these  guys  in  the 
 middle  and  they're  just  absolutely 
 stunning  they're  worth  it  and  by  the 
 time  one  is  done  another  one  is  coming 
 right  behind  it  they  bloom  all  summer 
 long  some  and  they  start  in  early  spring 
 and  bloom  all  summer  long  rarely  will 
 you  get  four  or  five  blooms  if  you're 
 lucky  you  do  I  usually  get  one  or  two 
 but  they're  so  striking  to  me  when 
 they're  blooming  or  not  blooming  I  think 
 think  they're  absolutely  gorgeous  this 
 guy  prefers  8212  as  a  fertilizer  I  know 
 that's  a  palm  fertilizer  but  my  Crum 
 Liles  absolutely  love  it  they  love  at 
 least  two  days  a  week  of  watering  my 
 plants  here  overall  get  three  to  four 
 days  a  week  of  watering  depending  how 
 hot  it  gets  in  the  summer  and  they  get 
 watering  from  about  25  minutes  to  30 
 minutes  depending  on  how  often  that  time 
 frame  is  they  get  watered  but  um  the 
 negative  to  these  guys  is  you  definitely 
 want  to  keep  a  lookout  for  pests  I  give 
 it  a  drench  about  three  times  a  year 
 years  so  I  use  the  bifen  it  drench  I'll 
 link  be  sure  to  link  it  down  below  and 
 I'll  drench  this  guy  about  overall  twice 
 a  year  three  times  if  I  see  any  pest  or 
 bugs  on  it  so  they  will  tend  to  visit 
 anything  that  has  a  big  giant  Leaf  like 
 this  you  always  want  to  kind  of  keep  a 
 lookout  for  pest  because  that  happens 
 when  you  do  your  trimming  of  these 
 individual  leaves  you  want  to  trim  from 
 way  back  here  at  the  stock  you  don't 
 want  to  trim  anything  from  here  because 
 it's  going  to  leave  a  scar  or  brown  Mark 
 there  and  that  also  leaves  it  very 
 susceptible  to  pest  or  bugs  so  you  don't 
 want  to  trim  here  you  want  to  trim  right 
 back  at  the  trunk  so  that's  where  you 
 kind  of  keep  it  nice  and  clean  but 
 overall  the  goal  is  just  to  kind  of  keep 
 it  more  upright  keep  the  leaves  the  way 
 you  want  it  just  like  you  would  in  like 
 a  bouquet  of  flowers  so  they're  fabulous 
 as  a  single  plant  or  a  multi  putting 
 several  together  and  letting  them  really 
 open  up  and  be  a  specimen  in  your  garden 
 their  trunks  themselves  are  unattractive 
 this  is  the  beauty  of  it  the  trunk  is 
 just  a  little  wooden  trunk  in  a  moment 
 I'll  move  and  let  Bri  show  you  guys  what 
 this  one  looks  like  when  it's  full  grown 
 so  you  guys  can  see  what  that  trunk 
 looks  like  but  it  is  the  reason  why  I 
 have  these  sesia  right  here  to  kind  of 
 give  us  a  little  bit  of  a  skirt  planting 
 because  sesy  are  so  thick  so  dense  and 
 they  do  a  great  job  of  kind  of 
 camouflaging  anything  behind  it  so  let 
 me  just  get  this  right  here  while  while 
 I'm  standing  here  sorry  I  do  this  all 
 the  time  I  have  These  Guys  these  felos 
 in  my  back  pocket  and  then  as  I  walk 
 through  the  garden  I  can't  help  but  nip 
 and  and  trim  and  just  kind  of  do  a 
 little  bit  of  Love  on  my  plants  and 
 trees  because  sometimes  that's  all  it 
 takes  sometimes  it's  not  a  weekend  in 
 the  garden  or  early  Saturday  morning 
 sometimes  it's  just  walking  through  the 
 garden  with  your  cup  of  coffee  and  your 
 little  five  gallon  bucket  and  then  you 
 put  that  down  and  you  take  a  nip  and  a 
 trim  and  and  you  know  you're  just  kind 
 of  fully  connected  to  it  and  then  you 
 feel  like  you  really  did  something  that 
 day  and  then  the  rest  of  the  day  you 
 spend  it  in  the  pool  with  some 
 margaritas  oh  or  maybe  that's  just  me 
 okay  anyway  Bryce  come  and  take  a  look 
 at  that  trunk  so  everybody  can  see  kind 
 of  what  what  I  was  meaning  when  I  was 
 saying  that  um  it's  not  as 
 attractive  so  that's  the  guy  if  it  you 
 know  if  it  offends  you  hide  it  that's 
 kind  of  what  I  do  but  overall  I  believe 
 it's  a  beautiful  specimen  in  the  garden 
 I  have  a  couple  of  them  and  you  might  be 
 able  to  see  that  bloom  from  way  back 
 there  can  you  see  what  that  looks  like 
 how  graceful  is  that  I  think  it's  just 
 so  stunning  and  that's  a  very  yeah 
 something  on  Avatar  exactly  that's  price 
 right  but  I  just  it's  so  beautiful  so 
 dainty  and  um  well  worth  having  in  your 
 garden  and  I  guess  that's  why  she's 
 called  the  queen  now  you'll  notice  there 
 is  a  green  variety  of  this  Krum  Lily  she 
 is  called  the  queen  Emma  so  she  is  more 
 of  the  um  purple  tones  and  all  all  of 
 these  Queen  Emma  really  do  love  this 
 environment  they  like  to  be  paired  with 
 something  like  you  see  here  so  this  aica 
 Palm  plays  as  its  cover  so  it's  like  the 
 perfect  amount  of  filtered  light  it 
 protects  this  Palm  if  I  take  this  Orica 
 Palm  out  this  queen  Emma  her  yourself 
 would  get  a  little  bit  burnt  on  the  tips 
 and  not  as  happy  not  as  broad  leaves  the 
 leaves  would  become  a  little  bit  thinner 
 because  they're  trying  to  battle  that 
 excessive  Sun  so  now  the  green  variety 
 of  the  Crum  Crum  ly  Krum  Lily  whatever 
 way  you  want  to  say  it  that  variety  can 
 really  handle  a  little  bit  more  sun  but 
 honestly  none  of  them  love  direct  full 
 Flor  to  Sun  they  all  like  a  filtered 
 light  so  if  you've  got  a  group  in  a  palm 
 trees  and  you're  looking  for  just  the 
 right  kind  of  thickness  or  a  little  bit 
 of  Pop  of  coverage  and  you  want  to  put 
 three  or  four  of  these  these  guys  in 
 that  spot  and  want  to  be  want  them  to  be 
 in  this  size  range  then  this  is  the 
 perfect  fit  for  you  no  fuss  no 
 complaining  this  tree  she  just  really  is 
 a  perfect  accent  to  incorporate  into 
 your  Gardens  so  we  did  talk  about  the 
 sanio  which  I  think  is  a  fantastic 
 companion  plant  to  the  queen  Emma 
 because  they're  both  in  that  same 
 watering  cycle  they  both  like  to  be  in 
 that  you  know  three  to  four  day  a  week 
 watering  cycle  um  but  you  can  do 
 something  like  um  Mam  croin  and  let  them 
 be  a  nice  red  boy  a  nice  red  Fireball 
 border  underneath  of  them  anything 
 that's  going  to  stay  and  not  compete 
 with  that  bottom  section  of  the  queen 
 Emma  so  if  you  plant  this  and  it's  a 
 pretty  pretty  good  size  like  you  see 
 here  then  you  can  start  with  a  little 
 bit  bigger  plant  but  if  you  got  a  young 
 one  plant  something  like  the  mamy  croin 
 that  are  already  small  and  going  to  stay 
 small  for  a  long  period  of  time  that  way 
 you're  growing  at  a  good  ratio  together 
 if  this  plant  is  already  large  and  has  a 
 good  size  to  it  like  this  was  by  the 
 time  I  put  the  sesia  in  then  go  ahead 
 and  put  fesia  in  because  they  love  that 
 they  love  that  same  environment  fill  up 
 that  bottom  and  they  will  create  the 
 most  beautiful  lacy  skirt  that  you  want 
 for  that  particular  plant  if  you're  in 
 more  sun  and  you've  got  the  green 
 variety  dwarf  exoro  are  another  good 
 choice  for  those  because  they  can  really 
 kind  of  fill  in  a  dense  little  border 
 but  not  outgrow  the  Lily  themselves  so 
 you  remember  all  you're  trying  to  cover 
 is  the  trunk  not  the  actual  beauty  of 
 the  leaves  so  all  right  you  guys  I  hope 
 that  helps  you  I  hope  that  kind  of 
 clarifies  a  little  bit  about  the  queen 
 Emma  the  kry  ly  Kum  ly  whichever  way 
 whatever  way  you  want  to  call  it  the 
 most  beautiful  plant  I  absolutely  have 
 two  of  them  in  my  garden  so  you  know 
 when  they're  taking  up  real  estate  in  my 
 garden  I  absolutely  love  it  so  I  hope 
 that  this  is  something  that  you're  going 
 to  incorporate  in  your  garden  and  if  you 
 do  please  stick  in  the  comments  down 
 below  I  would  love  to  hear  about  it  that 
 you  got  it  and  after  seeing  this  video 
 cuz  it  was  just  so  cool  check  out  our  um 
 new  true  Gardener  t-shirts  that  are 
 coming  out  they  should  be  in  the  link 
 down  below  and  they  are  on  our  website 
 thank  you  so  much  true  gardeners  and  I 
 so  hope  you  appreciate  and  enjoy  these 
 videos  like  I  do  because  this  has  been 
 such  a  fun  thing  for  us  to  do  together 
 and  I  I  look  forward  to  seeing  you  in 
 the  very  next  one  so  please  like 
 subscribe  see  you  soon  bye-bye

---

 so  hello  gardeners  welcome  back  my  name 
 is  Jennifer  bevans  or  as  you  guys  might 
 know  me  as  true  Gardener  uh  we  are  back 
 at  my  home  today  and  I  want  to  share 
 some  tips  on  how  to  create  a  garden  on  a 
 budget  these  are  just  a  few  quick  tips 
 that  I've  had  to  overcome  over  the  last 
 25  years  so  I  thought  gosh  let  me  share 
 them  with  you  guys  and  hope  that  I  can 
 save  you  guys  a  bit  of  the  stress  and 
 angst  that  I've  been  through  in  my 
 beginning  years  of  gardening  but  do  stay 
 to  the  end  because  that  um  that  last 
 couple  tips  they  are  humdingers  they're 
 ones  that  I  definitely  want  you  guys  to 
 be  around  for  so  the  first  tip  I  would 
 say  would  be  splitting  your  plants  if 
 you  guys  aren't  new  to  gardening  or  you 
 know  just  starting  to  kind  of  create  a 
 pallet  for  your  backyard  get  some 
 clumping  plants  plants  that  provide  pups 
 plants  that  provide  extra  plants  for  the 
 rest  of  your  garden  especially  if  you're 
 doing  this  in  phases  because  it  it  will 
 pay  for  itself  um  plants  like  the  dwarf 
 alas  I  know  I've  mentioned  this  in 
 previous  videos  because  this  plant 
 actually  I  have  propagated  it  and  pulled 
 it  pulled  pups  off  of  it  and  it's  been 
 in  so  many  different  areas  of  my  garden 
 and  it's  a  fantastic  plant  to  use  you 
 can  put  it  in  the  ground  for  about  6 
 months  to  a  year  it  starts  to  like 
 recreate  little  pups  along  the  edges  of 
 it  you  can  easily  chop  off  those  pups 
 put  them  right  into  water  if  you  want  or 
 put  them  right  into  the  ground  in  other 
 areas  and  I'll  get  Bryce  to  post  a  few 
 pictures  of  of  them  in  different  areas 
 of  my  garden  but  you  can  do  that  with  so 
 many  Florida  plants  that  it  it's  almost 
 like  there's  just  a  huge  selection  of 
 them  so  like  look  up  clumping  plants  for 
 your  area  that  way  you  can  determine  you 
 know  what's  going  to  work  for  your 
 particular  space  and  and  then  maybe  you 
 can  just  kind  of  get  free  plants  that 
 can  you  know  like  you  can  reuse  amongst 
 different  areas  of  your  garden  like  the 
 dwarf  alices  like  the  agonas  like  the 
 Eureka  Pals  or  the  cat  Pals  or  your  Rus 
 Palms  things  along  those  lines  this  is 
 one  of  my  favorite  budget  friendly 
 things  to  do  in  a  young  Garden  so  those 
 of  you  guys  who  know  that  you're  going 
 to  be  working  in  phases  it's  ideal  get 
 some  started  in  certain  areas  of  your 
 garden  knowing  that  you're  going  to  take 
 the  babies  and  you're  going  to  just  make 
 families  all  over  the  place  so  it  is  a 
 fantastic  way  to  do  it  because  plants 
 are  expensive  so  if  you  spend  $20  or  $25 
 on  one  plant  three  gallon  plant  grouping 
 now  just  do  the  math  you  can  take  that 
 particular  plant  and  propagate  and  put 
 him  all  through  the  yard  so  it's  well 
 worth  it  so  start  out  with  some  nice 
 propagating  plants  that  create  pups  and 
 you  have  yourself  a  nice  little 
 instantaneous  Garden  as  they  mature  so 
 for  the  next  tip  would  be 
 statues  in  the  garden  so  I  know  I'm  a 
 landscape  designer  but  you  guys  I  love 
 love  love  love  the  charm  of  statues  in 
 the  garden  having  little  key  things  um 
 that  you  can  pick  up  here  or  there  um 
 Facebook  Marketplace  is  my  ideal  way  to 
 go  I  mean  I'm  constantly  telling  clients 
 to  look  at  Facebook  Marketplace  because 
 statues  are  constantly  in  there  so  are 
 water  features  so  if  you're  kind  of  on  a 
 budget  and  you're  really  kind  of  looking 
 for  specific  areas  then  it  does  not 
 matter  if  you  have  to  drive  30  or  40 
 miles  to  go  get  that  perfect  little 
 water  Fountain  to  incorporate  into  your 
 garden  because  you're  going  to  get  it  at 
 like  a  teeny  tiny  percent  of  what  it 
 would  be  brand  new  I  have  picked  up  so 
 many  things  from  Facebook  Marketplace 
 including  this  little  gal  here  she 
 showcased  in  many  of  my  videos  I  call 
 her  the  white  lady  because  in  the  garden 
 she  looks  bright  and  white  at  night  as 
 the  light  shines  on  her  and  I  just 
 absolutely  love  the  way  she  looks  but  do 
 not  sleep  on  Facebook  Marketplace  or 
 garage  sales  those  are  great  ways  just 
 to  get  those  perfect  little  little 
 trinkets  those  perfect  little  things  to 
 incorporate  into  the  gardens  and  just  to 
 give  you  kind  of  an  idea  on  some 
 different  ways  that  you  can  incorporate 
 those  things  that  you  see  online  and 
 like  you  know  where  can  I  put  this  or 
 where  can  it  add  the  most  influence  I 
 love  where  my  white  lady  is  she  is 
 amongst  a  canopy  of  trees  kind  of  a 
 backdrop  to  big  leaves  so  anytime  you 
 got  a  little  bit  of  this  going  on  then 
 kind  of  creating  something  that's  just 
 almost  like  enveloped  like  it's  really 
 into  this  space  it  it  does  something  to 
 your  eye  when  you're  looking  back  out  at 
 the  Garden  way  it's  like  it's  a  place 
 you  see  all  of  this  foliage  all  of  this 
 different  kind  of  leaf  texture  and  then 
 your  eye  draws  to  this  area  it's  like  a 
 perfect  place  for  your  eye  to  rest  so 
 you  know  uh  I  I  can't  remember  what  she 
 ended  up  costing  me  when  I  first  got  her 
 but  I  know  it  wouldn't  have  been  what  I 
 you  know  would  have  paid  for  off  Wayfair 
 or  shipping  or  all  that  so  I  love  love 
 love  the  idea  that  I've  got  like  a 
 little  Jewel  in  my  garden  that  was 
 definitely  a  money  saving  tip  all  right 
 you  guys  so  for  the  next  tip  is  I  get 
 this  question  like  so  often  when  you 
 guys  are  shopping  at  a  nursery  and 
 you're  looking  down  a  row  of  palms  or  a 
 row  of  plants  a  row  of  accents  whatever 
 it  is  you're  looking  for  for  your  garden 
 you  might  see  like  different  heights  and 
 different  different  sizes  for  that  same 
 particular  container  size  for  you 
 gardeners  who  are  out  there  you  know  3 
 gallon  7  gallon  15  gallons  are  all 
 diameter  sizes  for  a  garden  and  a  lot  of 
 times  you  can  see  a  row  for  one  price 
 and  one  might  be  5  foot  taller  than  the 
 other  one  might  be  really  stretched  out 
 in  that  pot  and  so  many  of  my  clients 
 they  always  say  well  I  got  the  biggest 
 one  in  the  crop  you  know  it  may  have  not 
 been  the  prettiest  may  have  a  little  bit 
 yellowing  it  was  but  I  knew  that  it  was 
 just  going  to  take  off  as  soon  as  I  put 
 it  in  the  ground  so  that's  not  always 
 the  case  so  when  I'm  shopping  for  my 
 clients  when  I'm  shopping  and  I'm 
 looking  for  things  I  am  looking  at 
 things  like  almost  like  you  would  pick 
 up  a  Christmas  tree  you  know  you  would 
 turn  it  you're  looking  at  all  sides 
 you're  wanting  to  pick  the  best  tree  in 
 the  lot  that  does  not  change  when  it 
 comes  to  Landscaping  you  want  to  pick 
 the  perfect  tree  I  don't  care  if  it's 
 it's  3ft  taller  or  3ft  shorter  than  the 
 one  right  next  to  it  that's  exactly  the 
 same  price  because  I  can  tell  the  client 
 I  pick  the  perfect  quality  I  picked  the 
 best  tree  that  I  can  get  a  hold  of  for 
 your  particular  spot  so  when  you  shop 
 for  yourself  definitely  find  that  the 
 the  tree  that  looks  appropriate  in  size 
 it  has  good  caliber  to  it  has  a  great 
 widespread  to  it  it  has  really  good 
 green  color  it's  maybe  a  little  thicker 
 and  a  little  denser  it  does  does  not 
 matter  if  it's  way  way  way  smaller  you 
 want  the  best  tree  in  that  whole  crop 
 because  once  you  put  that  in  the  ground 
 with  good  soil  then  it  will  take  off 
 because  it  has  everything  that  it  needs 
 to  flourish  but  I  can  totally  understand 
 how  that  can  be  confusing  because  you 
 guys  even  all  the  years  that  I've  been 
 doing  this  there's  times  that  I'm  like 
 well  maybe  with  a  little  bit  of  extra 
 effort  this  one  would  do  this  or  this 
 one  we  do  that  but  then  I  have  to  remind 
 myself  that's  not  my  job  my  job  is  to 
 find  the  best  product  for  each  of  my 
 clients  and  not  something  they've  got  to 
 to  rehab  or  you  know  to  hopefully  that 
 it  it  establishes  better  it  doesn't  get 
 attacked  by  bugs  it's  first  weak  in  the 
 ground  I  want  something  healthy  and 
 strong  so  don't  take  that  shortcut  is 
 tempting  as  it  is  definitely  pick  the 
 perfect  tree  for  the  perfect  spot  so  for 
 my  next  tip  would  be  grass  or  no  grass 
 lawn  or  no  lawn  and  you  guys  know  if  you 
 have  been  here  and  seen  several  of  my 
 videos  that  I  do  not  have  a  lawn  my  yard 
 is  pretty  much  a  rock  path  that  leads 
 into  all  of  my  foliage  all  of  my  garden 
 and  many  many  of  my  clients  will  be  like 
 well  but  we  we  should  kind  of  have  a 
 yard  right  well  in  some  cases  if  you 
 have  kids  then  absolutely  you  need  a  big 
 area  for  them  to  play  or  whatnot  then  a 
 yard  is  ideal  but  for  most  of  us  a  nice 
 little  rock  garden  mixed  in  with  maybe 
 some  Boulders  or  some  other  interest  and 
 then  adding  some  layers  and  some 
 Landscaping  to  it  a  rock  path  is  ideal 
 and  how  it  saves  you  money  is  the  fact 
 that  you're  not  mowing  you're  not  edging 
 you're  not  fertilizing  you're  not  you 
 treating  it  constantly  like  I  was 
 treating  mine  for  fungus  and  for  whatnot 
 trying  to  keep  it  healthy  because  we 
 kind  of  all  know  in  Florida  we  call  it  a 
 yard  we  call  it  grass  but  it's  it's  more 
 weeds  than  anything  so  I  got  very  tired 
 of  looking  at  that  and  I  was  like  you 
 know  I'm  out  with  the  yard  and  I'm  put 
 in  a  rock  path  and  I  have  never  looked 
 back  the  initial  cost  is  there 
 absolutely  but  now  it's  done  and  I  don't 
 have  to  worry  about  maintaining  this 
 area  it's  always  clean  it's  always  crisp 
 and  it  always  highlights  the  Landscaping 
 well  so  for  the  next  tips  that  I  have 
 for  you  guys  they're  the  ones  that  I'm 
 really  excited  to  share  with  you  all  um 
 the  next  one  I  would  say  Ambiance 
 lighting  landscape  lighting  now  I  get  it 
 not  everybody  has  a  huge  budget  to  put 
 in  spotlights  and  landscape  lighting 
 especially  if  you're  working  on  your 
 garden  in  phases  that  is  something  that 
 should  be  done  at  the  very  end  when 
 you're  really  have  everything  in  place 
 and  you  can  see  what  you're  working  with 
 but  if  you  could  you  know  pick  up  some 
 beastro  lights  you  know  like  I  have 
 right  here  behind  me  I  did  these  years 
 ago  when  this  buffer  first  started  and 
 I've  been  patching  into  my  landscape 
 buff  for  over  the  years  you  guys  all 
 know  this  but  beer  lights  along  that 
 rear  side  of  the  perimeter  whether  it's 
 on  a  fence  line  or  it's  on  the  backside 
 of  your  plants  and  trees  and  you  just 
 see  little  spotlights  through  it  it  is 
 something  just  so  magical  the  bulbs  are 
 big  enough  to  kind  of  give  you  a  pretty 
 good  impact  um  that  way  you  can  see  them 
 for  such  a  distance  but  they're  not  over 
 your  head  where  they're  like  a  spotlight 
 on  on  you  rather  than  what  you're  trying 
 to  see  in  showcase  it  just  adds  adds  a 
 little  bit  of  Whimsy  to  the  Garden  I 
 really  do  think  um  I  have  smaller  lights 
 along  my  walkway  because  it  is  a  much 
 smaller  space  so  I  have  like  the  Garland 
 lights  or  the  little  twinkle  lights  I 
 have  a  bunch  of  lights  on  a  strand  wrap 
 them  through  your  sidey  yard  section  and 
 almost  looks  like  fireflies  in  there  I 
 just  I  love  the  way  that  looks  but  in 
 key  areas  where  you  guys  might  have  a  a 
 good  bit  of  sun  solar  lights  are  are 
 fantastic  to  work  with  I  have  solar 
 lights  in  key  areas  and  I  have  landscape 
 lighting  but  still  the  solar  lights  I 
 like  that  variation  of  different  kind  of 
 lights  so  in  areas  I  do  not  have  any 
 kind  of  electrical  outlet  or  have 
 landscape  lighting  I've  Incorporated 
 some  key  solar  lights  in  those  sections 
 but  the  ones  that  I  really  really  do 
 like  are  I  have  uh  two  post  right  as 
 you're  coming  along  my  sidey  yard  area 
 and  I  loved  those  post  solar  lights  that 
 I  put  on  there  all  I  did  is  screw  them 
 into  the  columns  and  voila  I've  got 
 lights  right  at  the  entrance  way  they 
 come  on  like  like  clockwork  and  I  just  I 
 love  the  way  they  look  they've  been  in 
 there  for  a  little  over  a  year  and  a 
 half  now  and  I  just  think  they're  a 
 fantastic  choice  I'll  be  sure  to  list 
 the  lights  that  I  do  have  that  I 
 purchased  off  Amazon  in  the  description 
 down  below  if  you  guys  are  interested 
 but  adding  a  little  bit  of  that  just 
 adds  a  different  feel  to  your  garden  at 
 night  there's  something  about  your 
 garden  during  the  day  but  at  night  when 
 you  see  those  little  shadow  effects  to 
 the  Agave  structures  or  that  the  aica 
 Palm  leaves  or  the  rfus  Palm  leaves 
 having  that  little  bit  of  filtered 
 Shadow  light  through  that  it  just  does 
 something  different  to  um  to  the  garden 
 and  so  I  I  say  I  appreciate  that  so  much 
 when  I'm  looking  out  through  my  garden 
 walking  through  it  at  night  so  you  guys 
 we're  going  to  knock  out  these  last 
 couple  tips  for  you  guys  before  we  lose 
 all  the  light  in  the  evening  sorry  we  we 
 both  have  a  full-time  jobs  so  these 
 these  videos  we  want  to  totally  get  them 
 out  for  you  guys  every  single  week  but 
 um  but  we're  we're  losing  the  light  so 
 as  I  may  be  talking  fast  now  so  the  next 
 tip  I  have  for  you  guys  is  creating  a 
 plan  for  your  SP  phas  so  no  matter  how 
 early  you  are  into  the  landscape  phase 
 or  how  late  you  are  maybe  you've  got 
 some  establishment  already  going  on  um 
 but  you  really  want  to  take  take  some 
 time  draw  out  your  house  line  draw  out 
 your  perimeter  um  perimeter  area  and 
 then  really  kind  of  get  a  good  idea  of 
 what  you  want  to  be  Garden  what  you  want 
 to  be  rock  or  or  sod  grass  what  you  want 
 to  be  um  overall  water  features  or  maybe 
 a  sitting  section  for  some  pavers  or  a 
 fire  pit  kind  of  really  get  your  get  get 
 some  ideas  of  how  you  want  to  live  in 
 the  space  how  you  want  to  make  the  most 
 of  the  whole  area  and  you  don't  need  to 
 be  an  architect  you  don't  need  to  be  a 
 full-blown  designer  to  kind  of  really 
 have  a  general  idea  but  kind  of  Mark  out 
 the  house  lines  the  perimeter  border  and 
 then  it  really  gives  you  a  good  idea  to 
 kind  of  decide  where  you're  going  what 
 what  the  first  step  is  for  it  because 
 I'm  telling  you  if  there  is  a  money 
 saving  tip  anywhere  it  is  knowing  the 
 direction  that  you're  going  in  before 
 you  hit  the  nursery  because  that  that 
 that  can  take  you  down  a  crazy  path  so 
 um  so  take  take  a  look  at  what  what 
 steps  you're  going  to  and  when  I'm 
 working  with  directly  with  my  clients 
 and  the  very  first  thing  that  we  do  when 
 we  meet  I  kind  of  ask  them  you  know  do 
 you  entertain  much  do  you  um  do  you 
 think  you're  going  to  be  sitting  out  in 
 this  section  do  you  like  to  have  a  cup 
 of  coffee  or  a  glass  of  wine  out  with 
 friends  out  in  the  garden  or  on  a  patio 
 or  somewhere  Outdoors  that's  kind  of 
 outside  the  house  in  in  a  quiet  little 
 Nook  or  quiet  area  do  you  need  like  a 
 romantic  Courtyard  are  you  looking  to 
 create  a  big  seating  section  for  a  big 
 family  you  know  what  are  the  things  that 
 you  think  that  you're  going  to  utilize 
 and  and  really  really  use  on  a  daily  or 
 weekend  basis  um  it  that  it's  going  to 
 make  really  make  it  make  sense  and  then 
 if  there's  specific  sections  that  maybe 
 you  want  to  block  out  that  pool  um  your 
 neighbor  has  acrossed  or  a  AC  unit  that 
 you  know  you're  constantly  looking  at  as 
 soon  as  you  walk  out  your  back  door 
 whatever  those  things  are  make  sure  that 
 those  are  highlighted  in  your  in  your 
 garden  design  because  those  are  key 
 things  to  really  incorporate  because 
 those  are  ultimately  at  the  very  end 
 they're  super  super  important  so  if  you 
 can  make  those  things  beautiful  and 
 functional  then  you  have  a  fantastic 
 Garden  outline  for  yourself  those  of  you 
 guys  who  need  just  more  help  with  that 
 and  you  kind  of  want  to  help  with  a 
 experienced  landscape  designer  then  of 
 course  you  know  your  girl  is  happy  to 
 help  and  then  Bryce  is  also  doing 
 Landscapes  designs  I  do  landscape  design 
 with  my  installation  and  you  guys  know 
 that  the  areas  I'll  get  Bryce  to  pop 
 them  up  on  the  screen  of  the  areas  that 
 we  do  landscape  designs  and 
 installations  but  if  you  guys  are  diyers 
 or  you're  looking  to  do  it  yourself  or 
 you're  looking  to  have  it  bid  out  with 
 maybe  a  local  contractor  then  of  course 
 reach  out  to  us  and  Bryce  and  we'll  be 
 happy  to  you  know  kind  of  schedule  a 
 consultation  and  walk  through  but  these 
 are  all  inperson  meetings  and  I  think 
 that  makes  it  so  nice  all  right  so  you 
 guys  the  last  tip  for  today  are  weeds 
 now  don't  click  off  I  know  weeds  are  one 
 of  those  things  that  we're  all  fighting 
 here  from  time  to  time  but  in  this 
 particular  instance  it  is  very  very 
 important  to  identify  the  weeds  in  your 
 garden  especially  those  of  you  guys  who 
 are  um  just  starting  out  maybe  you  have 
 a  pretty  much  a  blank  canvas  to  work 
 with  maybe  it's  there's  not  much  going 
 on  but  you've  got  pockets  of  weeds  or 
 overgrown  things  or  you  know  the  the 
 Terrible  Things  That  kind  of  you  know 
 fly  into  our  yards  like  the  pepperberry 
 trees  and  you  know  all  you  know  the 
 things  that  we  deal  with  here  so  if 
 that's  you  then  take  your  time  time 
 identify  if  those  weeds  are  going  to  be 
 the  aggressive  ones  and  address  those 
 weeds  before  you  ever  get  started 
 especially  if  you're  lucky  enough  to 
 think  hey  I'm  going  to  create  a  privacy 
 buffer  over  on  the  right  side  of  my 
 house  blocking  this  whatever  is  going  on 
 over  there  but  there's  a  pocket  of  weeds 
 that  just  kind  of  constantly  encroach 
 even  if  it's  just  the  areas  in  your 
 grass  because  weeds  are  not  all  created 
 equal  you  can  have  some  that  are 
 incredibly  aggressive  where  you're 
 fighting  them  right  off  the  bat  and  then 
 fighting  them  through  your  garden  the 
 entire  time  you  have  your  garden  or 
 there's  some  that  obviously  you  can 
 pretty  much  get  rid  of  right  from  the 
 start  and  then  you  hot  spot  them  and 
 treat  them  as  you  go  and  those  are 
 fairly  easy  to  work  with  but  if  you  guys 
 have  the  aggressive  kind  and  I  have  been 
 through  Gardens  where  clients  have 
 started  their  landscaping  and  I'm  coming 
 in  to  dress  it  up  or  add  to  it  and 
 they're  fighting  these  weeds  like  crazy 
 and  I'm  like  you  know  honestly  the  best 
 thing  to  do  is  eliminate  pull  everything 
 out  of  this  Garden  put  it  into  a 
 temporary  situation  for  right  now  like 
 little  holding  area  and  then  then 
 attacking  those  weeds  and  I  think  that's 
 why  it's  one  of  the  most  important  tips 
 uh  for  this  afternoon  because  you  guys 
 it  can  completely  destroy  a  brand  new 
 landscaping  and  the  last  thing  that  you 
 want  to  do  is  spend  thousands  of  dollars 
 at  a  nursery  to  create  this  beautiful 
 garden  that  you're  incredibly  happy  with 
 and  before  it  has  a  chance  to  really  do 
 its  thing  you  know  really  show  up  the 
 weeds  have  started  to  grow  in  and  take 
 hold  and  you're  constantly  either  out 
 there  on  like  a  weekend  warrior  pulling 
 the  weeds  or  you're  spraying  them 
 non-stop  worrying  that  you're  going  to 
 uh  uh  affect  the  plants  that  are 
 currently  there  what  I'm  going  to  say  is 
 probably  very  controversial  so  you  know 
 some  of  you  guys  are  not  going  to  love 
 it  but  when  I  have  a  garden  like  that 
 and  I'm  dealing  with  a  new  Landscaping 
 the  very  first  thing  that  I'm  going  to 
 do  is  spray  that  area  now  I  spray  I  use 
 Roundup  I  know  again  it's  controversial 
 but  I  do  know  that  it  gets  into  the  root 
 system  of  of  the  weed  and  helps  control 
 that  weed  helps  kill  it  right  down  to 
 the  roots  because  weeds  are  so  I  mean 
 like  they  just  go  viral  they  go  crazy 
 and  if  there  are  any  of  you  guys  who 
 have  any  other  suggestions  that  you've 
 used  it  and  it's  worked  well  it's  just 
 been  like  such  a  such  a  great  way  to  go 
 instead  of  Roundup  then  please  leave  in 
 the  comments  down  below  because  we  are 
 all  searching  for  the  perfect  product  to 
 use  in  our  Gardens  but  in  in  my 
 situation  I  have  used  Roundup  and  I've 
 killed  the  weeds  and  I've  done  that  over 
 a  period  of  time  so  don't  be  in  a  hurry 
 you  want  to  make  sure  that  you  kill  the 
 first  round  the  second  round  the  third 
 round  as  things  grow  up  because 
 seedlings  pop  up  from  those  weeds  so  you 
 want  to  make  you  want  to  give  yourself 
 plenty  of  time  to  completely  eradicate 
 that  area  of  weeds  before  you  start 
 planting  in  those  beautiful  plants  and 
 trees  that  you  want  to  work  with  now  I 
 have  never  had  an  issue  where  I  put 
 Roundup  in  till  the  garden  add  in  new 
 soil  and  brought  in  a  brand  new 
 landscape  and  that  Roundup  that  we  did 
 previously  affected  those  new  plants 
 I've  never  had  an  issue  with  that  so  I 
 know  that's  going  to  be  a  question  up 
 here  but  honestly  I  I  think  that  that's 
 going  to  be  the  best  way  to  do  it 
 because  you're  working  again  with  a 
 blank  slate  once  you  get  those 
 eradicated  then  you're  not  dealing  and 
 fighting  that  through  the  first  5  years 
 of  a  landscape  or  Worse  you're  losing 
 your  plants  and  your  trees  because  you 
 cannot  keep  up  the  weeds  because  weeds 
 grow  faster  than  plants  it's  just  it's 
 inevitable  in  our  area  so  I  think  that 
 that's  an  ideal  thing  and  a  very 
 important  thing  to  think  about  before 
 you  start  planting  the  very  first  plant 
 get  your  your  area  situated  and  cleaned 
 and  ready  and  prepped  for  your  brand  new 
 beautiful  full  Garden  so  all  right  you 
 true  gardeners  so  today  is  a  wrap  we  are 
 losing  light  so  we  are  going  to  head  on 
 out  of  here  I  hope  you  enjoy  today's 
 video  if  this  is  a  kind  of  thing  that 
 you  like  then  please  do  not  forget  to 
 like  And  subscribe  and  hit  that  little 
 notification  Bell  um  these  are  videos 
 that  we  put  out  every  single  weekend  and 
 um  and  and  let  us  know  if  this  is 
 something  that  you  guys  like  to  see  um  I 
 know  I  do  garden  tours  and  I  do  several 
 different  types  of  videos  but  if  you 
 like  tips  and  tricks  things  that  I  have 
 run  across  of  my  25  years  being  in 
 business  then  please  let  us  know  that 
 because  we're  um  we  we  we'd  love  to  help 
 so  we're  we're  looking  ways  to  to  kind 
 of  help  save  time  and  money  because  we 
 all  know  gardening  is  expensive  so  so 
 let  us  know  if  that's  something  you'd 
 like  to  see  more  of  and  we'd  be 
 absolutely  happy  to  post  it  um  for  those 
 of  you  guys  who  want  more  howto  or  tip 
 videos  then  check  out  our  previous  video 
 Bryce  and  I  did  a  um  question  and  answer 
 video  a  couple  weeks  ago  I  will  get  him 
 to  post  it  right  over  here  in  that  video 
 we  address  um  how  to  protect  your  plants 
 from  a  freeze  um  mulch  versus  rock  and  a 
 couple  other  really  helpful  tips  so  um 
 so  check  that  video  out  I  will  see  you 
 guys  in  the  very  next  video  I'll  see  you 
 next  weekend  take  care

---

 well  happy  weekend  gardeners  so  today  we 
 are  at  gardenfest  Bryce  and  I  are  taking 
 you  guys  along  to  this  awesome  awesome 
 awesome  once  a  year  gardenfest  where 
 everybody  puts  out  these  awesome  booths 
 and  just  I  don't  know  it  feels  so 
 magical  I  swear  today  is  like  like 
 Christmas  for  me  I  just  so  excited  I 
 have  already  been  through  this  twice 
 picked  up  some  goodies  here  we  are  going 
 to  film  and  you  guys  are  going  to  see  um 
 all  the  purchases  that  were  made  and  the 
 reasons  why  and  introducing  some  of  the 
 booths  these  are  from  people  all  through 
 Florida  um  a  lot  along  the  treasure  and 
 Space  Coast  so  a  lot  of  these  businesses 
 that  I'll  plug  on  here  are  just  local 
 Garden  enthusiasts  with  little  retail 
 shops  or  just  I  don't  know  just  cool 
 people  who  are  kind  of  our  people  so  I 
 thought  let  me  take  you  guys  along  we 
 decided  to  to  film  and  introduce  and 
 kind  of  walk  through  and  that  way  maybe 
 give  you  guys  some  inspiration  or  some 
 some  ideas  and  some  things  to  pick  up 
 for  your  own  garden  so  do  not  forget  to 
 like  And  subscribe  and  comment  true 
 Gardener  you  true  Garder  speaking  of 
 that  my  gosh  I  ran  into  a  couple  true 
 gardeners  here  today  which  was  super 
 awesome  I  saw  some  T-shirts  which  I 
 think  is  just  so  so  cool  so  it  has  been 
 a  magical  day  all  the  way  around  and  of 
 course  I  thought  about  you  guys  and  I'm 
 like  you  know  let's  pull  out  this  camera 
 and  shoot  this  uh  gorgeous  day  of  just 
 kind  of  hanging  out  and  shopping  for 
 Tropicals  so  I  hope  you  guys  enjoy  it 
 and  I  will  see  you  in  just  a  second  all 
 right  so  you  guys  we  are  in  like  the  a 
 little  bit  of  the  Whimsical  part  of  the 
 garden  Fest  which  I  AB  absolutely 
 they're  so  enchanted  by  I  love  this  look 
 I  love  these  pots  with  just  kind  of  all 
 the  kind  of  craziness  coming  out  of  them 
 and  incorporating  them  into  your 
 landscaping  or  just  something  simple  as 
 just  an  anchoring  in  the  corner  of  a 
 patio  I  think  that  is  so  cool  you  guys 
 might  um  have  seen  that  I  have  a  few 
 pieces  along  a  walkway  that  I've  done 
 just  that  with  and  this  is  no  exception 
 I  just  think  it  is  just  so  I  don't  know 
 when  you  see  something  like  that  in  a 
 garden  it  he  offers  you  a  little  bit  of 
 a  a  personality  a  little  bit  of  interest 
 and  also  a  place  for  your  eye  to  rest 
 when  you've  got  all  of  this  foliage  and 
 then  you  have  something  like  sculptural 
 like  this  you  guys  know  how  I  feel  about 
 the  birds  nest  ferns  I  just  think 
 they're  so  super  super  cool  but  what  a 
 great  way  to  Accent  them  by 
 incorporating  them  and  putting  them 
 right  into  a  potted  feature  or  on  a  wall 
 set  you  know  along  a  house  I  just  I  just 
 think  there's  just  it  adds  a  whole 
 another  another  bit  of  visual  interest 
 like  oh  that's  not  supposed  to  be  there 
 but  yet  it  is  and  it's  cool  so  I  think 
 that  if  you  guys  are  near  gardenfest  or 
 planning  on  coming  to  gardenfest  this 
 year  then  check  out  this  cool  little 
 booth  I  just  think  it  always  has  such 
 cool  personality  and  such  interest  and  I 
 will  get  Bryce  to  incorporate  a  sign  in 
 as  I  as  I  shop  so  all  right  you  guys  off 
 to  the  next  Booth  so  you  guys  might 
 recognize  these  little  bird  houses 
 behind  me  I  have  one  in  my  house  that  I 
 absolutely  love  now  you  guys  know  I  have 
 the  trouble  of  finding  a  bird  to 
 actually  nest  in  it  but  I  do  have  a 
 whole  frog  Colony  that  seems  to  love 
 them  and  it  looks  so  beautiful  in  my 
 garden  I  have  it  on  a  post  in  set  into 
 my  jungle  um  where  I  thought  they  would 
 love  it  but  then  I  spoke  to  the 
 gentleman  who  makes  it  and  he  told  me  he 
 goes  more  than  likely  the  birds  are  a 
 little  bit  concerned  of  the  location 
 because  it's  so  tucked  into  what  you 
 call  the  jungle  and  um  you  kind  of  might 
 need  to  move  that  guy  out  into  more  of 
 an  open  area  for  them  to  to  roost  and 
 and  nest  and  enjoy  that  space  yeah  so  I 
 guess  I'm  going  to  have  to  get  another 
 one  because  I  kind  of  like  where  mine's 
 at  and  I  can't  cannot  cannot  evict  the 
 frogs  so  I'm  going  to  pick  up  another 
 one  put  it  somewhere  else  in  an  open 
 area  of  my  garden  and  see  if  we  can  try 
 this  again  so  but  I  wanted  to  share 
 because  it  was  such  a  well-made  house  I 
 wanted  to  share  where  I  got  it  from  this 
 is  bird  feeder  direct  and  it  has  been 
 beautiful  in  my  garden  as  you  guys  all 
 know  for  years  and  years  and  years  I 
 think  I  bought  it  about  three  or  four 
 years  ago  and  it  has  just  done  so  so 
 well  and  just  aged  perfectly  so  we'll 
 have  to  get  another  one  to  try  a  uh  a 
 new  spot  out  so  hey  you  guys  I  am  with 
 Sally  here  who  I  met  at  gardenfest  this 
 year  so  she's  mentioned  to  me  and 
 invited  us  us  all  to  her 
 um  hi  hi  I  met  you  on  YouTube  and  now  I 
 see  you  in  person  so  hi  I'm  Sally  I'm 
 the  president  founder  of  the  Indian 
 River  brilon  Society  we  meet  here  in 
 Vero  Beach  once  a  month  and  we  have  a 
 speaker  I'm  in  front  of  the  Tropa  Flora 
 Booth  it's  amazing  they  just  spoke 
 Dennis  Cathcart  world  class  speaker  he 
 just  spoke  um  last  month  we  meet  on  the 
 second  Monday  you  can  find  us  on  the  web 
 and  also  at  uh  our  Facebook  page  and  we 
 have  the  best  speakers  every  month  we 
 invite  the  community  to  come  one  time 
 for  free  check  us  out  but  it's  very 
 inexpensive  to  join  it's  25  bucks  for  a 
 one  membership  we  take  five  bucks  for  a 
 couple  that  lives  at  the  same  address 
 and  uh  every  month  we  have  a  different 
 speaker  and  there's  special  special 
 experts  that  come  talk  about  the  BM 
 milads  mounting  them  growing  them  it's 
 fabulous  oh  it  sounds  like  it  and  they 
 have  plants  they  bring  us  plants  give  us 
 special  prices  we  have  a  raffle  with 
 vermil  ads  it's  and  vermil  as  as  you 
 know  it's  Shop  and  Drop  the  easiest 
 plants  to  grow  yes  yes  you  can  put  them 
 in  the  ground  you  can  put  them  on  a  tree 
 you  can  put  them  just  so  many  different 
 places  and  what  a  splash  they  give  for 
 just  a  little  plant  abolutely  and  you 
 can  buy  them  this  big  and  you  can  buy 
 them  this  big  so  it's  something  for 
 everybody  and  it's  a  giveaway  plan  it's 
 a  perfect  thing  when  you  kind  of 
 separate  things  and  and  give  away  to 
 friends  and  family  it's  just  a  great 
 plan  to  have  in  your  garden  right 
 they're  they're  the  greatest  plant  and 
 I'm  a  plantaholic  they're  the  easiest 
 but  the  most  exotic  looking  I  mean  look 
 at  them  they're  just  amazing  so  anyone 
 everyone's  invited  if  you  have  never 
 been  try  us  out  one  time  for  free 
 absolutely  and  the  next  one  is  going  to 
 be  on  the  second  Monday  which  is 
 February  10th  coming  up  on  the  10th  and 
 it's  at  the  Vero  Beach  um  um  uh  Moose 
 Lodge  on  43rd  and  4th  right  right  there 
 and  about  what  time  it  starts  doors  open 
 at  6:30  okay  and  we  have  a  short  you 
 know  meeting  and  the  speaker  talks  and 
 then  we  have  raffle  we  and  we  have  free 
 um  coffee  tea  and  members  a  bunch  of 
 gabbing  of  great  plants  so  socializing 
 with  your  plantaholic  alike  yes  we 
 cultivate  plants  and  friendships  Oh 
 that's  oh  I  love  that  oh  that's  great 
 okay  you  guys  so  now  they  can  find  you 
 on  Facebook  what's  the  Facebook  name 
 Indian  River  bro  Milad  Society  all  right 
 thank  you  so  much  Sally  nice  seeing  you 
 guys  see  you 
 next  Monday  Monday  yeah  okay  great  by 
 bye  bye  guys  I  want  to  pop  in  here 
 really  quick  just  to  say  that  we  um  are 
 not  affiliated  or  have  any  kind  of 
 sponsorship  with  any  of  the  vendors  that 
 are  here  I  just  wanted  to  share  with  you 
 guys  as  Bryce  and  I  walked  and  shopped 
 through  gardenfest  other  than  uh  Florida 
 Aquatics  we  do  have  a  working 
 relationship  with  them  through  the  years 
 where  they  do  waterfall  features  in 
 conjunction  with  our  landscaping  and 
 you're  going  to  see  them  here  in  just  a 
 second  so  enjoy  the  video  y'all  so  we 
 stopped  in  at  custom  Aquatics  display 
 here  at  gardenfest  it  is  super  super 
 cool  let  me  take  you  on  take  a  look  we 
 have  a  Spillway  Bowl  here  well  actually 
 it's  a  water  bowl  here  with  a  cutout  in 
 there  and  a  n  the  top  of  an  ear  shape 
 and  a  little  waterfall  feature  what  I 
 love  about  this  display  is  that  just 
 about  everybody  has  this  much  space  in 
 their  yard  I  mean  look  at  how  Compact 
 and  small  and  we  have  three  fountains  in 
 this  little  area  how  cool  is  that  so 
 here  is  a  what  I  would  call  a  cute 
 display  this  is  45  in  this  is  a  nice 
 little  squared  compact  space  so  if  you 
 guys  have  something  like  this  and  you 
 you  know  you're  just  limited  with  it  but 
 you  want  some  bubbling  sound  just  a 
 little  bit  of  Interest  how  cool  is  this 
 just  a  little  Spillway  that  re  flats 
 that  goes  back  into  this  Basin  here  and 
 it  just  recirculate  so  what  you  have 
 here  is  you  have  a  pondless  waterfall  so 
 the  water  comes  from  a  little  uh 
 Spillway  that  pops  up  this  way  comes 
 straight  down  goes  right  into  the  Basin 
 itself  this  is  a  big  giant  tub  that 
 generally  goes  underneath  the  ground  and 
 then  then  they  comboed  it  with  this  cool 
 little  mini  sphere  water  feature  this  is 
 a  faux  slate  water  feature  and  it  just 
 bubbles  up  at  the  top  and  Spills  over 
 creates  such  a  kind  of  just  a  a  gorgeous 
 little  minimal  display  but  it's  oh  my 
 gosh  just  just  such  a  big  punch  for  the 
 area  it's  so  so  Whimsical  I  think  to 
 have  some  some  water  in  the  garden  I 
 think  it  is  so  cool  so  this  is  a  cool 
 feature  so  reach  out  to  us  if  you  guys 
 are  looking  to  kind  of  recreate 
 something  like  this  we  work  hand  inand 
 with  Brad  and  custom  Aquatics  all  the 
 time  and  creating  spaces  they'll  do  this 
 and  we'll  handle  part  of  it  and  then 
 they'll  do  the  we'll  do  the  Landscaping 
 all  the  way  around  it  just  to  kind  of 
 Encompass  and  envelop  this  little 
 feature  into  that  space  So  yeah  so 
 totally  check  this  out  all  right  off  to 
 the  next  one  you  guys  we  at  Riverside 
 Palms  Booth  I  absolutely  love  this 
 little  booth  um  if  you  guys  remember  my 
 OB  Island  Palm  I  bought  about  3  years 
 ago  that  is  now  about  13  14t  tall  and 
 absolutely  gorgeous  in  my  sidey  yard 
 this  is  exactly  where  I  got  it  from  I 
 also  got  a  couple  of  my  Lalas  from  here 
 so  and  I  saw  we  have  a  random  laala  over 
 there  all  by  her  Lonesome  um  so  I  think 
 I'm  going  to  be  picking  her  up  today 
 from  the  garden  and  um  finding  a  spot  I 
 know  I  know  I  can  hear  it  now  where 
 where  in  your  garden  but  I  think  I'm 
 going  to  find  a  spot  for  her  in  the 
 garden  somewhere  because  she's 
 absolutely  stunning  but  but  yeah  this 
 Riverside  Palms  beautiful  Booth  I  always 
 put  out  every  single  year  and  what  I 
 love  about  it  is  that  they  have  um  a 
 little  just  a  little  index  card  with  the 
 picture  of  the  plant  and  the  tree  that 
 um  they  have  displayed  here  of  all  these 
 kind  of  really  cool  just  Exotics  because 
 none  of  us  really  know  especially  if 
 you're  really  not  a  heavy  exotic 
 Gardener  you  don't  know  kind  of  what 
 they're  going  to  turn  into  or  look  like 
 so  the  description  on  each  one  of  these 
 is  so  so  helpful  so  if  you  guys  are  near 
 Garden  Fest  or  thinking  about  Garden 
 fests  this  year  then  swing  by  Riverside 
 Palms  because  they  just  have  such  a  cool 
 cute  display  and  what  I  like  the  most 
 look  how  easy  it  is  to  handle  this  guy  I 
 mean  this  is  a  one  gon  pot  great  size 
 you're  going  to  put  it  in  the  ground  and 
 it's  going  to  be  beautiful  and  big  in  no 
 time  so  for  those  of  you  guys  who  are 
 new  gardeners  and  you're  doing  it 
 yourself  this  is  a  great  place  to  kind 
 of  just  get  started  you  know  find  some 
 Exotics  that  you  can  incorporate  here 
 and  there  and  uh  incorporate  into  uh 
 into  your  Gardens  so  I  think  I'm  going 
 to  pick  up  a  few  things  here  I  do  see  a 
 couple  uh  very  very  cool  OB  Islands  over 
 here  that  we're  also  going  to  take  a 
 peek  at  look  at  the  quality  of  them  just 
 absolutely  stunning  just  nice  giant 
 paddle  Leaf  I  that  isn't  scream  exotic  I 
 don't  know  what  does  but  all  right  you 
 guys  if  you  are  nearby  here  swing  by 
 Riverside  Palms  while  you're  at  Garden 
 Fest  it  is  just  super  cool  popped  in 
 right  here  to  Hannah's  Garden  we've  got 
 some  johannna  some  sexy  pink  some  Red 
 Hots  just  a  nice  little  collection  here 
 and  you  can  tell  that  you  can  do  quite  a 
 nice  display  with  such  a  small  space 
 that's  what  I  love  about  bmad  they  do 
 not  need  much  water  they  do  need  a 
 little  filter  protection  but  these  if 
 you  guys  have  Sun  these  being  perad  can 
 handle  more  of  that  Sun  so  they're  just 
 such  a 
 beautiful  accent  so  if  you  can  handle 
 these  and  these  for  sun  these  guys  right 
 here  the  sexy  pinks  are  more  for  the 
 shade  but  what  I  do  like  is  they  took 
 just  a  little  scalloped  edge  of  some 
 flagstone  to  kind  of  create  a  planter 
 feel  and  I  thought  that  was  just  kind  of 
 a  nice  display  kind  of  a  nice  easy  thing 
 to  incorporate  into  just  about  any  space 
 so  hey  you  guys  I  needed  to  slide  in 
 here  real  quick  because  we  had  a  little 
 bit  of  technical  difficulties  in  one 
 section  of  the  video  on  something  that  I 
 totally  wanted  to  share  with  you  guys 
 because  I  have  an  upcoming  DIY  project 
 dealing  with  this  actual  thing  that  I 
 purchased  it  is  from  Water  World  it  is 
 this  fantastic  Driftwood  Ry  if  you  back 
 up  a  little  bit  you  can  show  everybody 
 but  it  is  so  cool  I  cannot  wait  to  um  to 
 get  a  hold  of  it  and  get  started  it's  on 
 my  list  this  weekend  more  than  likely  to 
 get  done  but  we'll  see  um  I'm  going  to 
 hang  this  on  the  wall  and  incorporate 
 some  uh  succulents  and  some  orchids  and 
 just  kind  of  hang  them  off  the  wall  and 
 let  them  just  be  a  part  of  this  living 
 wall  area  more  than  likely  I'm  going  to 
 put  it  above  the  the  mirror  here  and  I 
 cannot  wait  to  share  it  with  you  guys 
 but  I  hated  that  we  didn't  get  all  the 
 audio  and  discussing  it  with  the  the 
 salesman  there  it  was  so  fascinating  so 
 interesting  this  actually  came  from 
 underneath  the  water  they  dry  it  out  and 
 it's  just  going  to  be  such  a  cool 
 feature  to  add  in  they  have  such  a 
 fantastic  story  I'll  see  if  Bryce  can 
 put  up  the  clips  that  we  actually  did 
 get  while  we  were  at  gardenfest  because 
 it  was  totally  something  I  wanted  to 
 share  with  you  guys  because  I  think  it's 
 going  to  be  a  perfect  asset  and  then 
 last  year  I  purchased  um  one  from  them 
 as  well  at  gardenfest  and  that's  kind  of 
 what  I  have  hanging  here  might  be  a 
 little  hard  to  see  because  it's  kind  of 
 been  engulfed  with  my  plants  I  hate  hard 
 edges  on  the  on  this  this  wall  feature 
 so  I  wanted  something  to  kind  of  just 
 kind  of  crown  up  there  so  this  guy  is 
 going  to  go  right  across  from  it  more 
 than  likely  he's  going  to  hang  right 
 here  on  this  Blank  Spot  of  the  wall  just 
 to  give  it  a  little  bit  of  interest  and 
 just  kind  of  give  us  something  we  can 
 hang  some  cool  species  off  of  so  you 
 guys  stay  tuned  for  that  video  but  I 
 totally  want  to  share  that  with  y'all  as 
 well  as  their  contact  information 
 because  they  were  just  so  fun  to  talk  to 
 so  I  hope  you  guys  enjoyed  today's  video 
 and  and  shopping  with  us  and  talking  to 
 these  vendors  it  was  just  so  fun  I 
 absolutely  love  gardenfest  and  remember 
 it  happens  every  single  February  I'll 
 get  Bryce  to  post  in  the  dates  the 
 average  dates  I  believe  it's  the  first 
 weekend  of  uh  February  so  if  you  enjoyed 
 today's  video  then  please  be  sure  to 
 like  And  subscribe  hit  that  little 
 notification  Bell  and  then  put  it  in  the 
 comments  what  you  know  what  you  enjoyed 
 the  most  about  it  you  know  what  what 
 maybe  what  maybe  helped  get  you  out  in 
 the  garden  and  give  your  garden  a  little 
 bit  of  love  if  you  guys  enjoy  content 
 like  this  then  uh  we  post  a  video  every 
 single  weekend  and  please  check  out  our 
 most  latest  one  it  is  how  to  create  a 
 landscaping  from  scratch  it  gives  you  a 
 lot  of  insight  a  little  bit  of 
 background  information  on  the  plants  and 
 trees  so  thank  you  guys  for  joining  us 
 take  care

---

 so  hey  gardeners  welcome  back  so  today 
 we  are  in  my  backyard  again  and  today's 
 video  is  all  about  privacy  for  those  of 
 you  who  are  new  my  name  is  Jennifer 
 bevans  I  am  a  landscape  designer  here  in 
 virau  beach  and  we  are  going  to  talk 
 about  some  solutions  that  I've  created 
 for  my  own  personal  privacy  and  things 
 that  I've  done  for  so  many  people  um 
 just  throughout  the  treasure  and  Space 
 Coast  so  um  there  are  so  many  different 
 ways  that  you  can  do  privacy  and  I 
 thought  that  I'm  going  to  list  kind  of 
 some  things  that  are  super  budget 
 friendly  things  that  grow  very  very  fast 
 and  things  that  you  know  if  you  want  to 
 create  and  kind  of  get  your  hands  into 
 um  into  a  little  bit  of  Woodwork  in  here 
 there's  some  things  that  you  can  do 
 there  but  we'll  get  into  that  later  in 
 the  video  I  would  say  70%  maybe  75%  of 
 my  clients  who  call  and  email  me  they're 
 looking  for  privacy  they're  looking  for 
 how  to  create  that  Oasis  or  maybe  even 
 just  block  something  out  that  maybe 
 maybe  their  neighbor  is  doing  over  there 
 whatever  it  might  be  they're  looking  to 
 kind  of  create  their  own  space  we're  all 
 busy  individuals  and  we're  you  know 
 we're  looking  to  make  our  space  our  own 
 so  privacy  is  a  big  thing  for  us  and  I 
 thought  let  me  do  a  video  on  sharing 
 some  of  my  top  things  that  I  love  to 
 incorporate  into  those  particular  homes 
 and  hopefully  this  might  help  you  guys 
 to  to  do  the  same  on  your  own  so  please 
 if  this  is  kind  of  your  thing  then 
 subscribe  hit  that  little  notification 
 Bell  we  put  out  a  video  every  single 
 week  so  let's  get  started  so  there  are 
 typically  about  three  ways  to  create 
 privacy  in  a  yard  you  can  do  a  fence 
 which  is  what  we  have  right  here  uh  you 
 can  do  a  typical  iCal  hedge  it's  a 
 common  thing  to  do  create  a  hedge  and 
 you  have  instantaneous  privacy  right 
 well  there's  that  and  then  there's  a 
 palm  tree  grouping  that  you  can  do  and 
 I'm  going  to  share  with  you  guys  all 
 three  because  I  have  all  three  in  my 
 yard  and  they  all  three  work  so  great  as 
 well  as  as  as  a  DIY  thing  that  I  did  on 
 the  side  that  I  absolutely  love  and  it's 
 the  perfect  amount  of  privacy  for  the 
 perfect  locations  especially  if  you're 
 looking  to  kind  of  just  block  a  little 
 bit  of  your  neighbor's  garbage  cans  or 
 AC  unit  or  if  you  know  if  it's  something 
 simple  like  that  but  I'll  share  that 
 with  you  guys  later  in  the  video  so  as 
 for  the  fence  and  no  I  know  I  know  um  a 
 fence  is  it's  a  common  way  to  do  things 
 a  lot  of  my  clients  call  me  and  they 
 want  to  do  a  perimeter  fence  but  I 
 promise  you  this  is  a  more  unique  way  to 
 do  it  so  when  my  husband  and  I  were  in 
 Scotland  uh  last  year  we  learned  that 
 they  have  Courtyards  right  off  of  their 
 bedroom  area  and  I  always  thought  it  was 
 just  so  magical  so  wonderful  and  so  this 
 is  a  little  bit  different  way  to  do  a 
 fence  we  chose  to  do  a  backyard  fence 
 with  a  little  pergula  overhang  right  off 
 of  our  bedroom  doors  to  create  that 
 perfect  romantic  little  Courtyard  space 
 so  I  think  when  you're  trying  to  conceal 
 an  area  nice  and  tight  you  can  put  in  a 
 fence  to  to  create  that  you  know  soften 
 it  maybe  paint  it  make  it  more  of  a  wall 
 feature  and  create  a  courtyard  with  it 
 and  I  think  that's  a  perfect  way  to  do  a 
 fence  however  a  fence  all  the  way  around 
 your  property  for  privacy  isn't  quite 
 practical  so  for  those  of  you  guys  who 
 don't  have  dogs  and  and  you  know  need  a 
 fence  for  that  reason  you  can  create  a  a 
 beautiful  privacy  buffer  with  several 
 other  options  and  I'm  going  to  share 
 with  you  what  we've  done  in  uh  those 
 other  areas  so  the  only  thing  that  I 
 didn't  mention  about  the  fence  is  that 
 it's  not  necessarily  budget  friendly  you 
 know  it  it  it  takes  some  work  it  takes 
 you  know  the  wood  is  expensive  and 
 whatnot  so  what  is  I  think  a  little  bit 
 more  budget  friendly  if  you're  looking 
 to  kind  of  create  this  yourself  and  do 
 it  yourself  are  a  Palms  I  love  Orica 
 Palms  they  are  ideal  to  kind  of  create  a 
 linear  kind  of  buffer  now  I  do  know  that 
 um  you  know  it  does  need  a  little  bit  of 
 layering  a  little  bit  of  Polish  in  the 
 front  to  kind  of  give  it  that  look  but  I 
 think  what  a  great  border  planting  that 
 they  create  if  you  can  take  them  and  put 
 them  to  the  extent  of  your  property  line 
 like  I  have  here  and  I  know  it  feels 
 like  they're  up  close  but  I  don't  have 
 much  property  on  my  side  so  I  kind  of 
 have  a  few  of  them  like  a  wall  to  cover 
 some  of  the  most  important  things  that  I 
 want  covered  on  the  opposite  side  here 
 is  my  neighbor's  um  very  colorful  home 
 there's  AC  equipment  there  there's 
 storage  over  there  the  garbage  cans  are 
 are  set  over  there  so  I  kind  of  wanted  a 
 little  bit  of  my  own  space  a  little  bit 
 of  a  nestling  around  my  walkway  so  the 
 eure  Palms  do  a  great  job  and  what  makes 
 them  so  budget  friendly  is  that  you  can 
 get  them  this  big  they  do  not  need  to  be 
 large  when  you  put  them  in  those  of  you 
 guys  who  are  from  Florida  really  know 
 they're  a  staple  in  a  garden  for  that 
 reason  so  you  can  get  a  ROM  plant  in  the 
 ground  and  you're  going  to  get  three  to 
 four  foot  of  growth  per  year  from  those 
 and  it's  not  just  overall  height  but 
 it's  width  so  they're  really  going  to  do 
 a  great  job  of  creating  that  so  when  you 
 get  them  in  like  a  7  gallon  container 
 which  is  about  6t  tall  plant  them  about 
 4  to  5T  apart  and  in  no  time  they  will 
 connect  connect  and  create  that  Great 
 Wall  I  love  their  flowy  kind  of  movement 
 I  don't  know  if  you  can  hear  it  behind 
 me  but  every  time  the  wind  blows  you 
 hear  those  fronds  and  that  movement  and 
 um  yes  they  do  get  large  they  do  get 
 about  25  foot  I  know  I  can  hear  in  the 
 comments  right  now  but  they  get  big  and 
 when  they  get  big  they  get  a  little 
 thinner  at  the  bottom  well  I'm  going  to 
 show  you  what  we  did  with  those  in  the 
 back  so  this  is  an  or  Palm  that  has 
 gotten  substantial  height  to  it  this  guy 
 I  put  in  the  garden  fairly  young  um 
 years  and  years  ago  I  bet  it's  about  12 
 to  15  years  old  now  and  it's  gone 
 absolutely  stunning  and  it  has  done  dual 
 purpose  so  when  we  are  on  the  deck  which 
 is  about  3  foot  higher  it  blocks  out  a 
 roof  line  just  behind  us  which  is  ideal 
 a  roof  line  and  a  screen  room  for  a  pool 
 area  so  it  is  doing  its  job  dual  duty 
 but  we  do  have  clearance  right  along 
 this  bottom  which  is  what  or  Palms  do  in 
 the  future  and  so  what  we  did  is  we 
 created  a  couple  tiered  plant  grouping 
 that's  really  going  to  do  a  nice  job  of 
 giving  you  kind  of  a  visual  buffer  so 
 you  start  kind  of  creating  coverage 
 about  four  to  five  to  six  foot  up  from 
 this  so  or  Palms  to  me  are  one  of  the 
 most  ideal  trees  to  use  and  I  consider 
 them  my  backdrop  tree  they're  always  the 
 tree  that's  always  going  to  be  in  the 
 back  because  they  are  going  to  shoot  up 
 and  shoot  up  fast  which  is  what  makes 
 them  so  budget  friendly  they're  going  to 
 give  you  a  lot  of  coverage  very  quickly 
 with  a  little  bit  out  of  your  pocketbook 
 and  so  for  those  of  you  guys  who  are 
 already  there  with  your  or  palms  and  you 
 know  you  love  their  tops  and  that  beauty 
 to  them  and  you  want  to  see  some  of  the 
 stem  but  you  want  don't  want  to  see  that 
 bottom  then  definitely  hit  up  some  sesia 
 they're  the  the  perfect  underplanting 
 now  these  guys  have  been  trimmed  but  I'm 
 going  to  show  you  some  pictures  of  what 
 they  look  like  when  they're  full  and 
 they're  Lush  and  they're  gorgeous  they 
 fill  in  this  bottom  base  and  then  this 
 queen  Emma  doeses  its  job  with  really 
 giving  us  an  intermediate  skirt  to  it  so 
 you  know  dress  up  your  or  Palms  give 
 them  some  accessories  that's  kind  of 
 what  they  need  when  they  get  big  so  now 
 let's  check  out  another  budget  friendly 
 option  in  my  front  yard  so  we  are  in  my 
 front  yard  now  and  we  are  going  to  look 
 at  the  kcia  Hedge  you  guys  I  absolutely 
 love  the  Kia  hedge  and  I  know  a  hedge  is 
 a  hedge  but  this  is  a  way  that  you  can 
 really  make  your  hedge  work  for  your 
 space  so  what  I  love  about  the  kusia  is 
 you  can  put  it  in  at  this  size  here  and 
 it  grows  super  fast  I  mean  we  were 
 talking  about  a  3  foot  per  year  easy 
 growth  habit  on  those  guys  and  you  know 
 I  know  that  you  can  you  you  see  commonly 
 a  hedge  that  you  know  kind  of  comes  out 
 straight  and  then  curves  down  and  it 
 kind  of  creates  a  wall  but  in  in  a  lot 
 of  cases  it  does  the  job  for  you  of 
 creating  that  fence  line  but  giving  you 
 that  green  screen  that  green  wall  and 
 then  you  can  take  plants  and  trees  and 
 layer  into  that  or  curve  a  bed  to  the 
 front  of  that  hedge  or  curve  a  bed  to 
 the  behind  the  Hedge  to  kind  of  create 
 more  of  that  that  garden-like  feel  that 
 you're  looking  for  so  it  does  the  job 
 for  you  all  you  have  to  do  is  kind  of 
 soften  it  disguise  it  a  little  bit  with 
 some  layers  and  some  plants  so  right 
 behind  where  Bryce  is  standing  or  where 
 you  guys  are  looking  whichever  way  right 
 behind  you  is  our  pond  and  we  love  to 
 see  the  fish  we  love  to  feed  the  fish 
 and  kind  of  hang  out  and  have  our 
 coffees  there  and  and  just  relax  in  that 
 spot  however  we're  on  a  culac  and  it's 
 it's  like  like  sweet  as  that  sounds  it's 
 believe  it  or  not  there's  a  lot  of 
 turnaround  traffic  going  right  from 
 there  so  having  um  a  kusia  hedge  versus 
 a  fence  here  um  I  honestly  I  I  will  tell 
 you  that  a  fence  was  my  first  option  but 
 in  my  community  we  cannot  do  a  fence  so 
 the  very  next  best  thing  was  creating  a 
 kusia  hedge  so  I  started  these  guys  out 
 at  3T  tall  and  they  are  now  6  foot  tall 
 and  become  the  perfect  border  kusia 
 grows  solid  from  the  bottom  all  the  way 
 to  the  top  so  they  don't  get  leggy  at 
 the  bottom  they  stay  a  solid  wall  so  now 
 we're  going  to  take  a  look  at  the  last 
 privacy  option  so  we're  now  walking  into 
 one  of  my  favorite  projects  that  we  did 
 so  this  is  really  in  there  for  you  di 
 wires  um  it  it  was  creating  the  perfect 
 little  little  privacy  area  in  a  very 
 very  tough  spot  which  if  you  guys  are 
 I'm  sure  you're  on  this  this  video  and 
 checking  these  things  out  because  you 
 have  a  significant  area  that  you're 
 looking  to  create  some  privacy  on  you 
 have  a  an  area  that  you  like  you're 
 really  trying  to  find  some  ideas  on  how 
 to  really  conceal  that  spot  and  if  you 
 if  any  of  these  tips  have  have  helped 
 you  then  please  list  it  in  the  comments 
 down  below  if  there's  anything  that 
 you've  done  and  you  absolutely  love  the 
 way  that  it's  turned  out  then  please 
 list  that  in  the  comments  down  below 
 because  that  helps  this  community  and 
 and  and  I  love  that  I  love  that  we're 
 sharing  advice  from  um  from  each 
 Gardener  to  Gardener  into  how  to  create 
 these  beautiful  spaces  for  ourselves  so 
 please  stick  in  the  comments  down  below 
 but  for  the  one  that  we're  going  to  look 
 at  now  is  my  privacy  wall  I  have  a  video 
 about  this  um  privacy  wall  when  we 
 installed  it  last  last  year  and  I 
 absolutely  love  it  it's  been  a  learning 
 curve  for  me  so  I  am  going  to  do  an 
 update  on  what's  doing  well  and  and  and 
 what  um  what  has  struggled  but  overall 
 this  is  a  Troublesome  spot  so  this  is 
 right  along  my  walkway  I  have  about  nine 
 nine  maybe  10  foot  it's  not  really  high 
 up  there  um  I  think  it's  9  foot  up  there 
 on  my  Eve  where  there's  such  an  overhang 
 so  I  couldn't  put  a  bunch  of  plants  or 
 trees  or  anything  with  significant 
 height  and  I  didn't  want  anything  right 
 on  my  house  so  if  you  guys  have  a 
 similar  spot  which  is  like  no  room  by  no 
 room  if  you  have  that  going  on  this  is 
 an  ideal  thing  to  use  this  is  a 
 constructed  kind  of  frame  with  um  some 
 metal  braces  here  or  some  metal  like 
 panels  here  and  then  I  just  put  some 
 hooks  on  here  and  Incorporated  my 
 favorite  plant  groupings  to  kind  of  give 
 me  privacy  my  bathroom  window  is  on  the 
 opposite  side  and  when  we  entertain  or 
 we  have  Gatherings  there's  a  lot  of 
 traffic  that  comes  in  and  out  through 
 here  and  I  just  always  feel  like  it's 
 awkward  you  know  know  so  I  I  like  the 
 idea  that  this  little  area  has  some 
 significance  it  has  some  interest  right 
 by  an  entrance  to  the  backyard  um  but  it 
 um  but  it  also  creates  privacy  for  that 
 window  there  so  um  if  um  if  you  thought 
 about  creating  a  living  wall  do  it  it's 
 ideal  even  if  you  do  it  with  vines  and 
 very  simplistic  plant  groupings  um  it  is 
 so  well  worth  creating  for  your  own 
 space  and  if  you  want  to  see  that  video 
 I'll  be  sure  to  put  it  in  the 
 description  down  below  because  it  was  a 
 cool  video  to  to  put  together  and  share 
 with  you  guys  so  I  have  a  few  honorable 
 mentions  that  I  love  to  incorporate  not 
 only  in  my  garden  but  I've  Incorporated 
 along  all  of  my  clients  Gardens  I  just 
 love  the  way  they  work  it  becomes  such  a 
 nice  buffer  slow  growing  easy  to  care 
 for  one  is  the  rist  Palm  I  just  love  the 
 look  of  these  just  multi-fingered  Palms 
 in  a  garden  now  I  have  mine  in  a  pot  and 
 that  is  an  ideal  way  to  keep  them  if  you 
 just  have  one  particular  area  that  you 
 want  to  cover  you  can  put  them  in  a  pot 
 they  Branch  out  like  a  bouquet  of  of  r 
 es  you  know  nice  and  tight  at  the  center 
 and  really  open  up  so  they're  really 
 really  cool  Plant  to  incorporate  when 
 you  just  have  like  a  a  a  certain  size 
 maybe  a  6ot  area  that  you  want  to  cover 
 by  6ot  ideal  plant  to  use  or  if  you  have 
 more  room  and  you  want  to  use  them  as  a 
 perimeter  buffer  they're  fantastic  as  a 
 as  a  hedge  planting  they're  just 
 gorgeous  to  kind  of  create  that  nice  9 
 to  10  foot  kind  of  wall  there  so  my 
 second  honorable  mention  will  be  the  cat 
 Palms  AKA  ceria  Palms  I  love  the  way 
 they  they  work  they  do  like  um  a  little 
 bit  of  protection  from  the  Sun  but  they 
 are  a  fantastic  8  to  9ft  backdrop  kind 
 of  buffer  I  have  them  here  behind  my 
 waterfall  I  have  them  tucked  in  areas 
 where  my  or  Palms  have  gotten  Too  Tall 
 and  I  want  still  leafy  coverage  at  the 
 bottom  they  do  a  fantastic  job  so  if  you 
 guys  have  an  understory  planting  that 
 you  need  to  just  pop  some  filler  in  cat 
 Palms  are  ideal  for  that  they're  chunky 
 they're  fat  and  they  stay  that  8  to  9t 
 tall  so  you're  not  worried  about  them 
 getting  In  Too  Tall  so  that  gives  you 
 that  cost  effective 
 longterm  uh  plant  for  the  garden  I  mean 
 they  just  I  think  they  do  a  fantastic 
 job  so  cat  Palms  are  definitely  not  a 
 palm  to  sleep  on  when  you  want  that 
 intermediate  coverage  so  my  last  Tree  on 
 the  list  is  the  livonian  fulas  and  um  I 
 absolutely  love  these  trees  now  I  know 
 you  guys  probably  haven't  seen  this  side 
 of  my  garden  this  is  actually  the  rear 
 side  of  my  buffer  so  these  trees  have 
 been  in  the  ground  a  long  long  time  and 
 what  makes  them  so  valuable  is  that  um 
 they're  a  tree  that  stays  put  when  you 
 plant  it  so  you  can  plant  it  at  you  know 
 9  to  10  foot  tall  and  it's  going  to  be  9 
 to  10  foot  tall  by  6  foot  wide  for  years 
 it  takes  a  very  long  time  for  this  tree 
 to  grow  so  if  you  got  a  spot  where  we've 
 got  some  big  beautiful  coconut  palms  or 
 orka  palms  and  they've  got  an  all  size 
 to  them  and  you  need  something  that's 
 going  to  offer  you  coverage  longterm 
 that's  going  to  grow  super  super  slow 
 the  Liv  Estonia  fulas  are  a  fantastic  p 
 palm  tree  to  work  with  because  they  stay 
 thick  dense  full  big  sprawling  canopies 
 to  them  for  such  a  little  tree  and  they 
 are  my  backing  to  my  my  landscape  buffer 
 because  they  fill  the  holes  that  I  need 
 filled  and  I  can  I  can  look  out  they 
 this  year  I  can  look  at  their  next  year 
 and  they're  still  filling  the  same  holes 
 which  is  ideal  so  they're  a  little  bit 
 on  the  price  your  side  as  far  as 
 individual  palm  trees  grow  but  because 
 they  stay  in  your  garden  so  long  to  me 
 that  is  still  a  budget  friendly  option 
 because  they're  going  to  be  there  to 
 last  so  and  that's  what  we  really  want 
 we  want  palm  trees  we  want  our  garden  to 
 have  an  evolving  growth  but  still  have 
 key  elements  within  it  to  kind  of  create 
 that  long-term  privacy  buffer  that  we're 
 all  looking  for  so  that'll  do  it  for 
 today's  video  I  hope  these  tips  help  you 
 guys  and  please  listen  in  the  comments 
 down  below  if  there's  anything  that  you 
 are  able  to  take  away  and  incorporate 
 into  your  own  garden  and  the  same  if 
 there's  something  that  you've  done  and 
 it's  just  absolutely  worked  but  for 
 those  of  you  guys  who  might  need  more 
 than  the  inspiration  that  you  received 
 here  today  and  you  are  in  our  area  then 
 please  reach  out  to  us  um  we  do 
 landscape  design  and  installation  and  we 
 be  so  very  happy  to  help  you  guys  create 
 that  perfect  Oasis  for  yourself  and 
 speaking  of  Oasis  if  today's  video  was  a 
 video  that  kind  of  resonated  with  you 
 that's  the  kind  of  thing  that  you  like 
 to  watch  it's  just  your  jam  then  check 
 out  this  video  over  here  because  it  is 
 about  creating  a  private  Oasis  for  a 
 backyard  pool  area  and  I  think  you  guys 
 would  enjoy  it  I  will  see  you  in  the 
 next  video  take  care

---

 so  hey  gardeners  welcome  back  so  we  are 
 in  my  front  yard  today  and  today's  video 
 is  all  about  propagation  so  if  you  guys 
 are  looking  to  create  a  garden  and  then 
 take  that  garden  and  have  it  you  know 
 transfer  into  other  parts  of  your  yard 
 and  just  kind  of  you  know  let  it  all 
 flow  and  have  beautiful  beautiful 
 specimens  then  stay  into  this  video 
 because  I'm  going  to  share  with  you  my 
 favorite  plants  within  my  whole  garden 
 that  I  have  taken  and  propagated  and  put 
 little  clusters  of  the  throughout  the 
 whole  area  and  how  I've  done  it  so  we're 
 going  to  start  with  one  of  my  favorites 
 which  is  the  Brazilian  Red  Cloak  and  I 
 don't  know  if  I  even  have  to  tell  you 
 why  this  is  one  of  my  favorites  I  mean 
 it  is  just  a  stunner  grow  strong  just 
 resilient  to  pest  just  just  overall 
 tough  the  only  thing  that  about  this 
 particular  plant  is  it  does  need  a 
 little  bit  of  water  a  little  extra 
 watering  than  some  of  your  other 
 Tropicals  but  goodness  does  anything 
 scream  more  tropical  than  these  big 
 giant  leaves  I  mean  I  just  feel  like  I'm 
 just  in  developed  in  a  rainforest  when  I 
 have  them  so  obviously  I  wanted  to  have 
 them  in  many  other  places  in  my  garden 
 I'm  going  to  share  with  you  guys  where  I 
 took  some  of  these  cuting  from  and 
 propagated  them  so  when  you  want  a  big 
 clustering  like  you  see  here  then  you're 
 going  to  want  to  make  sure  to  trim  it 
 pretty  heavily  now  we've  had  some  really 
 cold  snaps  that  have  come  through  so  you 
 can  kind  of  see  some  Leaf  burn  on  on 
 some  of  these  beautiful  blooms  oh  my 
 goodness  but  overall  it  has  handled  the 
 cold  temps  like  like  a  champ  so  I'm  not 
 going  to  do  a  heavy  cutting  right  now 
 and  you  can  kind  of  see  where  it's  gappy 
 and  it  really  needs  a  good  trim  but  I  am 
 going  to  show  you  guys  exactly  what  I 
 would  do  and  where  I  would  cut  to  make 
 myself  a  brand  new  plant  let  me  find  one 
 that's  not  in  bloom  or  not  popping  New 
 Growth  like  you  see  here  but  has  a  good 
 stem  to  it  so  here  we  are  so  we've  got  a 
 young  one  here  so  you  want  to  go  in 
 between  the  nodes  that  you  see  here 
 which  is  pretty  much  just  the  L  lines 
 themselves  on  the  plant  so  we  got  a  line 
 here  and  a  line  here  and  I  just  want  to 
 go  just  above  this  line  cut  this  guy 
 right  through  here  now  you  can  do  two 
 things  you  can  take  this  guy  and  you  can 
 let  him  just  dry  out  a  little  bit  for 
 the  day  or  you  can  put  him  right  in  the 
 ground  now  I've  seen  people  do  both  and 
 honestly  I  can't  tell  much  of  a 
 difference  but  what  I  can  tell  when  that 
 makes  a  big  difference  is  cutting  these 
 leaves  in  half  that  way  the  plant  itself 
 when  I  go  to  plant  it  only  has  has  to 
 worry  about  pushing  out  new  stem  growth 
 these  leaves  are  very  big  so  cutting 
 them  down  really  pushes  all  of  that 
 energy  towards  the  root  system  so  I'll 
 leave  some  of  these  especially  these 
 younger  leaves  that  are  kind  of  just 
 really  doing  super  well  but  some  of 
 these  older  leaves  I  will  cut  them  right 
 at  the  corner  and  cut  them  in  half  and 
 we're  going  to  walk  over  to  my  backyard 
 that's  a  little  bit  shadier  spot  and 
 we're  going  to  stick  this  guy  right  in 
 the  ground  now  you  can  of  course  let  it 
 dry  out  if  that's  your  thing  it's  done 
 well  in  both  ways  so  but  I  do  like  to 
 you  know  I'm  busy  so  on  a  Saturday  I 
 might  come  out  and  do  some  clippings  out 
 here  take  the  plant  that  I've  got 
 currently  water  it  in  the  ground  turn  my 
 irrigation  system  up  for  about  3  weeks 
 and  then  obviously  the  roots  are  going 
 to  start  to  um  pop  out  and  then  it'll 
 stabilize  this  stem  for  you  right  here 
 so  we're  going  to  go  in  the  back  and 
 I'll  show  you  guys  where  exactly  where  I 
 plant  it 
 so  this  right  here  is  my  it's  much  like 
 farming  ground  for  these  guys  I  am 
 eventually  going  to  find  there  a  couple 
 more  areas  that  I've  kind  of  targeted 
 that  I  want  to  have  more  of  them  so  some 
 of  these  guys  have  been  three  gallon 
 plants  um  that  I  put  in  the  ground  but 
 most  of  them  have  been  from  cuting  of 
 that  big  giant  cluster  that's  up  by  the 
 front  entrance  way  all  I'm  going  to  do 
 is  I'm  going  to  go  ahead  and  take  these 
 guys  and  I'm  going  to  put  them  in  the 
 ground  if  these  were  not  such  young 
 leaves  I  probably  would  just  completely 
 clip  them  off  put  this  guy  in  the  ground 
 just  like  you  see  here  um  and  I  am  just 
 going  to  angle  this  cut  just  a  little 
 bit  more  I  seem  to  like  the  way  that 
 goes  in  and  then  cut  a  couple  of  these 
 old  top  leaves  in  half  I  know  that  seems 
 so  brutal  you  guys  but  it  really  does 
 help  push  that  energy  and  growth  when 
 they  just  don't  have  so  much  weight  on 
 them  so  there  we  go  so  this  is  what 
 we're  working  with  this  plant  will 
 become  one  of  these  beautiful  plants 
 that  you  see  in  this  grouping  in  no  time 
 how  long  does  it  take  for  that  starts  uh 
 K  and  how  long  have  those  been  in  the 
 ground  okay  so  that's  a  great  question 
 Bryce  so  Bryce  asked  how  long  does  it 
 take  for  these  roots  to  start  becoming 
 established  where  they  start  coming  out 
 of  this  particular  cutting  here  when  I 
 put  this  in  water  because  I  love  to  put 
 my  cuting  in  water  and  boses  in  the 
 house  these  kids  will  know  that  they'll 
 see  little  clusters  of  quarter  lines  or 
 these  guys  or  St  cheesier  or  or  just 
 like  over  there  like  where  I  have  some 
 cuting  of  my  a  Palms  I  just  I  love 
 having  those  through  the  house  and  just 
 you  know  on  the  patio  I  just  I  feel  like 
 that  it's  like  sharing  the  wealth  of  of 
 of  the  beauty  throughout  the  garden  you 
 know  I'm  just  taking  little  pieces  of  of 
 all  my  favorite  plants  and  bringing  them 
 inside  or  bringing  them  to  our  seeding 
 sections  but  so  in  water  you're  looking 
 about  about  3  to  four  weeks  before  they 
 really  get  some  good  roots  to  them  that 
 you  can  actually  put  them  into  a  planter 
 if  you  want  now  because  these  guys  get 
 so  big  I  put  them  right  into  the  ground 
 so  once  I  put  them  into  the  ground  5  to 
 6  weeks  I  can't  move  this  stem  around 
 anymore  I  can  feel  like  when  I'm  tugging 
 on  it  I  can  feel  it  start  to  connect  and 
 take  so  I  know  that  I  know  it  was  a 
 success  if  I  pull  it  out  of  the  ground 
 and  there's  been  times  you  guys 
 especially  with  my  quarter  lines  where  I 
 pulled  them  out  of  the  ground  and 
 they've  not  taken  and  I'm  like  okay  this 
 was  a  lost  cause  and  it  just  didn't  take 
 may  have  been  my  fault  I  should  have  put 
 a  rooting  powder  on  there  or  maybe  it 
 just  we  just  didn't  quite  get  enough 
 water  in  the  meantime  so  and  as  far  as 
 your  second  question  goes  these  guys 
 have  been  in  the  ground  for  about  5 
 months  now  and  um  they  have  really  taken 
 off  now  it  was  early  summer  when  they 
 were  put  in  so  they  went  through  a  bit 
 of  a  stress  period  but  my  gosh  look  at 
 just  how  just  glorious  these  stems  have 
 come  through  flushed  out  and  filled  out 
 this  back  row  that  you  see  back  here  the 
 taller  grouping  those  were  three  gallon 
 plants  that  I  had  brought  in  and  they 
 just  didn't  look  to  the  par  of  where  I 
 want  to  put  them  into  a  homeowner's  home 
 so  I  put  four  of  them  back  there  and 
 that's  kind  of  what  you're  seeing  back 
 there  and  gosh  don't  let  they  look 
 beautiful  so  you  know  I  just  there 
 there's  times  where  have  little  leftover 
 plants  that  I  plop  into  my  garden  to 
 really  kind  of  you  know  bring  them  back 
 to  life  and  I'm  so  glad  that  I  was  able 
 to  utilize  them  but  this  whole  front 
 section  that  you  see  here  came  from  this 
 guy  isn't  that  amazing  one  little  stem 
 one  little  trimming  that  had  to  be  done 
 anyway  might  as  well  utilize  them  so  if 
 you  like  Brazilian  Red  cloaks  make  sure 
 you  have  several  spots  in  your  garden 
 for  these  guys  because  every  time  you  go 
 to  trim  them  you're  going  to  be  like  I 
 don't  want  to  waste  you  beautiful  girl 
 put  them  right  in  the  ground  next  to 
 your  other  crop  and  you  will  be  so  very 
 happy  with  it  so  that's  exactly  what 
 we're  going  to  do  here  we're  going  to  go 
 ahead  and  find  now  this  is  my  sprinkler 
 head  here  um  if  you  guys  cannot  commit 
 to  Watering  your  Brazilian  Red  cloaks 
 put  them  near  an  area  they're  going  to 
 get  natural  water  they're  going  to  get 
 their  natural  irrigation  system  or  put 
 them  into  a  little  bit  of  a  low  spot 
 that  maybe  water  collects  when  it  rains 
 those  are  great  places  for  these  guys 
 cuz  they  are  a  little  more  water  hungry 
 than  your  typical  plants  they're  like  in 
 the  the  sesia  group  they  really  do  like 
 some  of  that  that  extra  sitting  water  so 
 we're  going  to  put  him  right  here  right 
 next  to  the 
 um  right  next  to  this  crop  and  right 
 next  to  this  irrigation  head  so  what  I 
 um  I  use  my  H  Hy  blade  which  I  love  I 
 absolutely  love  this  because  I  can  use 
 it  for  digging  small  little  one  gallons 
 or  kind  of  you  know  cutting  some  Roots 
 out  when  I'm  propagating  you  always  want 
 to  make  sure  you  work  with  a  clean  knife 
 you  guys  I  wipe  this  knife  clean  every 
 single  time  with  a  little  vinegar  and 
 water  and  then  I  know  that  for  the  next 
 application  it's  ready  to  go  so  I  just 
 peel  back  the  mulch  a  little  bit  and 
 then  I  just  take  this  and  just  kind  of 
 do  a  little  twisty  motion  and  I  do  this 
 very  same  thing  with  my  quarter  lines 
 and  a  lot  of  my  other  propagated  just 
 loosens  up  the  soil  I  put  this  bad  boy 
 right  in  here  I  take  that  soil  I  prop 
 her  up  she's  shaded  and  protected  by  the 
 other  plants  that  are  around  her  she's 
 going  to  get  excess  water  cuz  she's 
 right  near  this  this  irrigation  head  and 
 then  voila  we  were  at  a  brand  new  plant 
 and  it's  just  that  easy  it  is  just  that 
 easy  so  if  this  plant  in  the  nursery 
 cost  you  $25  do  not  fret  this  plant  will 
 give  you  50  plants  every  time  you  go  to 
 trim  it  and  you  will  have  to  trim  it 
 because  it  gets  Lush  and  big  and 
 beautiful  and  gorgeous  so  totally  worth 
 buying  one  plant  knowing  literally  you 
 can  pick  out  different  spots  in  your 
 garden  and  say  you're  going  here  and 
 here  so  we're  going  to  go  to  our  my  next 
 favorite  plant  in  the  the  garden  that  I 
 have  propagated  all  through  my  spaces 
 and  I've  utilized  it  in  two  different 
 ways  so  which  I  think  is  fabulous  if  you 
 guys  have  water  nearby  this  might  be  a 
 plant  just  for  you  now  this  plant  is  you 
 know  it's  just  it's  such  a  Charming 
 plant  you'll  notice  that  I  use  it  not 
 only  in  one  spot  in  my  garden  but  I  use 
 it  in  five  different  areas  of  my  of  this 
 front  yard  backyard  sidey  yard  I 
 absolutely  love  this  plant  because  of 
 its  versatility  so  you  may  have  been 
 guessing  already  but  it  is  my  dwarf 
 alacia  so  this  is  my  clustering  of  dwarf 
 aliccia  I 
 absolutely  love  it  my  eye  goes  right  to 
 this  plant  every  time  I  look  in  the 
 garden  this  big  giant  paddle  Leaf  now 
 this  is  this  guy  has  been  in  my  garden 
 for  about  7  years  and  I  keep  taking 
 pieces  from  him  and  he  doesn't  mind  it 
 must  be  she  she's  just  so  great  she 
 always  produces  these  pups  for  me  and  I 
 put  her  pups  in  water  I  put  them  in  the 
 ground  I  put  them  in  partial  light 
 they're  just  so  f  fantastic  if  you  guys 
 are  familiar  with  the  dwarf  alas  you 
 know  that  they  like  a  filtered  light 
 environment  so  if  you've  got  Morning  Sun 
 fabulous  they  love  Morning  Sun  if  you've 
 got  palm  trees  kind  of  like  you  see  here 
 where  these  are  kind  of  they're  in 
 Morning  Sun  but  they  do  have  some 
 filtered  light  through  this  area  and 
 they  kind  of  get  an  angled  view  of  the 
 or  the  sun  kind  of  hits  them  at  an 
 angled  light  perfect  Bryce  get  a  look 
 inside  here  I  mean  it's  just  stunning  I 
 mean  you  can  see  how  it's  just  a 
 perfectly  controlled  environment  for 
 these  guys  you  can  see  the  filtered 
 light  speckled  all  over  them  this  is 
 their  daytime  ritual  where  they  get  just 
 enough  light  to  be  happy  just  enough 
 light  to  Clump  out  now  those  of  you  guys 
 who  have  a  very  shady  environment  then 
 don't  fret  you  can  absolutely  put  them 
 into  a  full  shade  environment  but  what 
 will  happen  is  they'll  spra  out  a  little 
 bit  more  a  little  wider  you  won't  get  as 
 much  clumping  as  you  get  like  you  see 
 here  when  they're  in  this  light  they 
 have  a  tendency  to  group  together  real 
 tight  and  then  open  up  almost  like  a 
 bouquet  like  the  trunk  does  this  and 
 they  widen  out  just  like  that  stunning 
 but  if  you're  in  a  shade  environment 
 they  are  going  to  Branch  more  which  is 
 also  a  beautiful  tropical  look  so  I  you 
 know  I  I  think  that  either  way  it's  a 
 winner  but  I  have  taken  pieces  from  this 
 guy  or  this  girl  over  and  over  through 
 the  years  and  she's  provided  me  with 
 such  pups  and  I'm  just  going  to  kind  of 
 show  you  how  easy  it  is  to  get  in  here 
 and  find  the  spot  that  you  need  so  Bryce 
 come  in  here  and  take  a  peek  and  you'll 
 be  able  to  show  everybody  kind  of  the 
 individual  trunks  that  are  down  here  so 
 these  are  the  new  pups  that  have  grown 
 in  and  then  down  here  we've  got  some  of 
 the  the  older  Trunks  and  I  mean  you 
 could  just  see  how  thick  and  dense  and 
 gorgeous  like  she's  just  really  taken 
 off  and  all  I  do  is  I  take  my  knife  and 
 I  take  one  of  these  trunks  out  and  I 
 separate  them  and  I'm  going  to  go  ahead 
 and  sacrifice  one  for  you  guys  just  so 
 you  can  see  it  but  I  almost  hate  to  take 
 anything  from  her  cuz  she's  absolutely 
 stunning  so  we're  just  going  going  to 
 take  my  favorite  horory  knife  this  guy 
 is  super  sharp  so  be  very  careful  I  have 
 an  injury  from  earlier  and  then  you  just 
 kind  of  cut  at  an  angle  and  get  your 
 plant  of  choice  now  in  many  cases  you 
 can  get  roots  with  it  if  you  really  want 
 to  dig  that  out  but  I  want  to  make  sure 
 to  only  get  a  small  section  of  the  stem 
 because  I  am  in  love  with  the  way  this 
 looks  and  Bryce's  wedding  is  only  2  and 
 1/2  months  away  so  I  want  this  to  stay 
 lovely  so  I'm  only  going  to  get  a  small 
 area  just  to  kind  of  show  you  guys  but 
 all  it  takes  is  this  little  bit  of 
 rootage  here  and  then  look  at  we've  got 
 new  growth  that's  going  to  come  right 
 from  here  and  I'm  going  to  take  this  guy 
 and  I  particularly  want  him  in  water  so 
 I'm  going  to  go  ahead  and  put  him  right 
 in  water  now  if  you  guys  want  them  in 
 soil  it  is  a  little  bit  easier  to  grab  a 
 little  bit  of  roots  at  the  bottom  with 
 them  and  then  you'll  they'll  root  in  and 
 grab  a  lot  easier  but  because  I  want  him 
 in  water  I  wasn't  quite  so  worried  about 
 the  root  system  itself  so  we're  going  to 
 take  him  and  I'm  actually  going  to  plant 
 him  into  this  spot  right  there  in  the 
 garden  all  right  so  I  have  a  spot  right 
 here  that  I'm  going  to  actually  put  this 
 guy  and  then  this  weekend  I'm  going  to 
 grab  some  annuals  I  love  the  way  that 
 impatients  look  in  the  water  so  I'm 
 going  to  wash  off  the  roots  from  the 
 impatience  put  him  put  them  right  in  the 
 middle  and  then  I'll  have  them  folding 
 over  like  I  do  every  year  with  one  of 
 these  guys  as  the  backdrop  and  I  just 
 love  the  way  that  looks  so  all  you  need 
 to  be  able  to  do  prop  him  up  and  I 
 usually  use  some  stones  to  make  that 
 happen  happen  and  then  I'm  going  to  show 
 you  guys  an  example  of  one  that  is  in 
 the  ground  or  in  the  water  that  is 
 absolutely  happy  and  Lush  and  tropical 
 and  a  statement  piece  in  that  space  now 
 this  plant  right  here  will  provide  Roots 
 within  three  weeks  and  grab  a  hold  of 
 those  rocks  and  really  flush  out  with 
 all  new  understory  growth  and  be 
 incredibly  happy  you  can  do  the  same 
 thing  by  putting  him  right  into  the 
 ground  next  to  your  other  plants  and 
 they  will  do  the  same  thing  so  I  just  I 
 love  dwarf  alas  I  love  what  they  offer  I 
 love  that  they  can  give  you  multiple 
 plants  for  free  look  how  Nimble  I  am  so 
 you  guys  as  you  can  see  this  plant  is 
 incredibly  it  it's  fastened  in  this 
 space  it  is  now  the  roots  have 
 completely  grown  over  top  and  around  the 
 rocks  it  is  just  a  structure  in  here  I 
 don't  have  to  worry  about  this  crazy 
 wind  that  we're  getting  taking  it  and  it 
 falling  over  it's  going  to  be  here  and 
 it's  such  a  stable  plant  into  my  garden 
 if  you  guys  have  maybe  you  don't  have 
 fountains  or  waterfalls  or  anything  like 
 that  but  if  you  have  an  old  pot  that's 
 just  kind  of  a  cool  pot  and  you  kind  of 
 want  a  little  bit  of  a  drizzle  sound  and 
 you're  as  you're  walking  through  your 
 garden  or  along  a  pathway  I  love  make 
 sure  it's  plugged  on  the  bottom  put  some 
 stone  in  there  put  water  in  there  put  a 
 little  bubbler  in  there  if  you  can  like 
 just  a  little  Fountain  bubbler  it  can 
 just  be  an  old  little  Fountain  bubbler 
 in  there  that  just  makes  the  water  move 
 a  little  bit  put  one  of  these  guys  in 
 there  you  can  even  put  impatience  in 
 there  at  the  bottom  and  it  is  just  a 
 stunning  sound  sound  of  trickling  water 
 and  it  just  or  bubbling  water  and  then 
 it  just  and  then  you  have  one  of  these 
 guys  in  there  and  it's  just  a  little 
 habitat  it's  just  a  gorgeous  little  spot 
 in  the  garden  and  I  absolutely  love  it 
 so  um  if  you  need  to  put  you  know  the 
 mosquito  controller  in  there  go  ahead 
 and  put  that  in  there  I  do  that  every 
 once  in  a  while  with  this  cuz  it  it 
 doesn't  provide  tons  of  movement  but  I 
 wouldn't  change  a  thing  I  absolutely 
 love  the  way  it  looks  in  the  garden  I 
 love  that  little  bit  of  sound  and  that 
 little  bit  of  impact  of  movement  of 
 water  as  you're  walking  through  these 
 Pathways  so  maybe  that'll  be  a  little 
 great  thing  to  incorporate  into  your 
 garden 
 so  but  next  we're  going  to  go  to  just 
 right  over  here  one  of  my  other  favorite 
 propagating  plants  so  this  guy  here  we 
 have  split  and  I  have  given  it  to 
 friends  family  whoever  wants  a  rist  or 
 lady  Palm  they're  a  great  dwarf  palm 
 tree  for  Florida  they  will  grow  into 
 that  10  to  12  foot  Heights  I've  seen 
 projects  where  we  put  them  in  as  like  a 
 a  side  buffer  like  you  would  like  an  a 
 palm  like  you  can  really  create  kind  of 
 a  wall  with  them  now  they  do  get  a 
 little  bit  stocky  on  the  bottom  I'll 
 show  you  kind  of  what  that  looks  like 
 but  that  can  be  easily  managed  so  see 
 how  the  trunks  are  a  little  bit  stocky 
 at  the  base  and  then  they  get  Fuller  and 
 thicker  at  the  top  but  all  you  have  to 
 do  in  order  to  kind  of  avoid  that  from 
 happening  is  cutting  those  front  stocks 
 so  making  sure  they're  always  kind  of 
 cut  so  twice  a  year  I'll  come  in  and  cut 
 my  front  stocks  because  it'll  pop  out 
 New  Growth  right  at  the  cutting  or  right 
 just  to  the  sides  of  the  cutting  so  you 
 always  get  that  thickness  and  denseness 
 it's  totally  worth  having  this  plant  now 
 I  put  it  in  a  pock  because  the  one  thing 
 about  this  plant  is  it  does  continue  to 
 travel  so  you  want  to  put  it  into  a 
 planter  area  you  want  to  put  it  into  a 
 spot  that  you  just  can't  go  all  over 
 your  yard  so  it's  definitely  one  of 
 those  areas  that  you  want  to  focus  on 
 that's  kind  of  lush  kind  of  tropical 
 look  but  just  so  you're  not  having  pop 
 up  little  pups  everywhere  you  want  to 
 make  sure  it's  not  in  an  area  that's 
 just  going  to  travel  and  get  out  of 
 control  on  you  but  it  is  a  fantastic 
 thing  to  do  you're  going  to  do  it  the 
 same  way  that  you  did  that  we  just  did 
 with  the  the  alas  you're  going  to  want 
 to  take  this  one  stem  and  take  it  and 
 slice  it  around  the  base  of  this  stem 
 and  then  you're  going  to  just  take  a 
 little  bit  of  roots  with  it  so  you're 
 really  just  splitting  this  one  Pup  off 
 of  the  rest  of  the  plants  this  pup  will 
 go  into  a  pot  or  into  a  new  planting 
 area  that  has  a  little  bit  of  moisture  a 
 little  bit  of  shade  and  then  it's  going 
 to  re-root  and  create  more  pups  into 
 that  pot  or  into  that  grouping  um  you 
 can  just  take  one  and  it  will  produce  a 
 whole  clustering  that's  all  this  was 
 here  this  was  one  plant  that  really 
 produced  a  nice  little  chunk  little 
 grouping  into  this  pot  so  I  love  the  way 
 they  look  now  they  do  need  filtered 
 light  so  Morning  Sun  I  mean  we're 
 getting  great  morning  midday  Sun  here 
 and  you  can  see  it's  doing  really  well 
 they  do  like  good  drainage  so  if  your 
 soil  stays  really  wet  this  is  not  not 
 where  you  want  to  put  this  one  you  want 
 to  put  this  one  on  a  little  bit  of  an 
 incline  where  that  area  does  drain 
 really  well  but  they're  just  such  a 
 gorgeous  plant  I  love  this  Leaf  texture 
 I  mean  look  at  these  individual  blades 
 like  this  if  you're  going  to  add  any 
 landscape  lighting  or  solar  lighting 
 upping  on  these  kind  of  plants  this 
 movement  in  the  garden  the  shadow  effect 
 is  just  gorgeous  so  I  hope  that  um  I 
 hope  that  that's  something  that  you  guys 
 could  incorporate  into  your  space  so  the 
 very  next  Plant  grouping  and  I  feel  like 
 I've  talked  about  this  plant  recently 
 but  I  cannot  get  enough  of  it  I  hope  you 
 guys  add  it  to  your  Gardens  but  is  the 
 triangularis  heart  Ficus  I  love  this 
 heart-shaped  Leaf  I  love  how  easy  it  is 
 to  propagate  what  you  want  to  do  is  you 
 want  to  take  one  of  the  stems  that  you 
 may  not  want  like  this  one's  starting  to 
 grow  over  top  of  my  little  solar  light 
 here  so  we  don't  want  that  so  I'm  going 
 to  go  ahead  and  take  his  stem  and  I  want 
 to  take  it  in  a  clear  area  so  you  know 
 there's  the  space  between  the  plant 
 grouping  between  the  little  nodes  the 
 like  you  can  see  the  little  division 
 that's  here  I'm  going  to  take  it  right 
 there  I'm  going  to  peel  off  some  of  the 
 lower  branches  so  we've  got  leverage  to 
 work  with  and  then  I'm  just  going  to 
 take  this  little  stem  and  I  know  I've 
 showed  you  guys  in  a  previous  video  that 
 you  can  pretty  much  plant  these  guys 
 just  like  so  just  so  very  easy  and  it's 
 a  good  tip  because  these  guys  are  not 
 inexpensive  I  think  I  think  that  one 
 plant  is  like  $28  so  yeah  so  you  know 
 reuse  free  plants  do  the  math  right  as 
 you  can  see  I've  got  other  cuting  that 
 I've  propagated  in  the  past  that  are 
 just  now  starting  to  flush  out  and  grow 
 what  I  like  about  the  Triangular  spicus 
 is  that  they  can  grow  in  filtered  light 
 they  can  grow  in  pretty  much  all  shade 
 and  now  they're  growing  in  the  Sun  so 
 it's  been  a  test  subject  that  I've  got  a 
 nursery  um  who  has  put  them  in  the  Sun 
 and  they've  said  they've  done  fantastic 
 so  I  my  next  step  is  to  taking  some  of 
 these  cuting  and  putting  them  into  um  a 
 little  sunnier  environment  I'll  protect 
 them  while  they're  young  but  once  they 
 get  established  I'm  just  going  to  let  it 
 all  you  know  let  them  just  fill  in  a 
 beautiful  sun  environment  but  it's  a 
 fantastic  plan 
 easy  easy  to  propagate  let  me  find  a 
 home  for  this  little 
 beauty  right 
 here  it's  a  little  protected  it's  in  a 
 moist  spot  right  there  it's  going  to  do 
 gorgeous  and  look  what  I've  done  this  is 
 a  another  one  of  those  babies  from  that 
 other  aliccia  all  I've  done  is  pop  him 
 into  this  little  wall  here  and  look  it's 
 produced  all  of  these  new  little 
 babies  off  of  that  one  stem  here  and 
 it's  very  very  happy  it's  gorgeous 
 little  side  piece  to  my  wall  and  that's 
 what  I  love  about  this  I  have  purchased 
 um  beautiful  species  from  last 
 February's  Garden  Fest  into  this  wall 
 and  I  want  to  tell  you  guys  even  though 
 I  stayed  on  top  of  it  and  watched  for 
 Pest  and  bugs  and  sprayed  and  treated 
 and  fertilized  I  lost  half  of  them  it 
 was  just  I  was  like  my  gosh  I  I  it's  it 
 was  pretty  distressing  because  it  was 
 quite  pricey  so  right  here  what  is  in  in 
 this  wall  That's  current  currently  here 
 90%  of  it  is  cuting  from  the  rest  of  the 
 yard  and  now  it  is  taking  off  and  doing 
 well  so  I  love  to  test  plants  and  trees 
 and  throughout  my  garden  but  I  do  get 
 upset  when  it  doesn't  work  so  so  that's 
 why  I  love  sharing  these  videos  with  you 
 guys  because  I  feel  like  this  is  might 
 be  something  that  could  really  save  you 
 time  and  save  you  money  and  it's  a  just 
 a  great  way  to  you  know  just  add  a 
 little  charm  all  through  your  garden  and 
 and  then  you  know  as  you  see  these 
 plants  and  trees  grow  up  and  you're 
 walking  through  there  it's  so  so 
 Charming  just  to  know  that  oh  look  at 
 how  good  you're  doing  after  I  was  the 
 one  who  separated  you  and  put  you  there 
 and  you  know  it's  just  like  little 
 family  Pockets  that  I'm  recreating 
 throughout  my  whole  garden  and  I  just 
 think  that's  so  great  before  we  get  into 
 our  next  plant  that  is  also  obviously  a 
 favorite  of  mine  you  guys  be  sure  to 
 list  in  the  comments  down  below  what 
 plant  or  tree  that  You'  propagated  that 
 may  have  been  a  surprise  that  you  put  it 
 in  the  ground  and  you're  like  oh  hello 
 beautiful  every  time  you  walk  by  because 
 you  did  that  um  yeah  please  listen  the 
 comments  because  what  I  love  about  this 
 community  I  love  that  I  see  a  question 
 that  maybe  somebody  else  has  posted  that 
 you  guys  go  in  and  answer  because  you 
 had  some  experiences  that  in  that  and  I 
 just  think  that  that's  such  a  great 
 thing  that  we've  created  this  little 
 Nook  of  Florida  Planters  who  have  like 
 I've  had  this  happen  I've  had  that 
 happen  and  you  know  and  then  you  kind  of 
 go  back  and  you  answer  and  help  others 
 out  because  I  just  think  that's  so  cool 
 but  I  have  a  um  speaking  of  friends  and 
 a  community  I  have  a  friend  who  um  owns 
 a  gorgeous  little  Cita  it's  called  um 
 here  in  buau  Beach  Florida  it's  just  a 
 with  a  romantic  little  Airbnb  and  um  she 
 like  has  done  such  a  beautiful  job  of 
 creating  this  pathway  it's  on  2  Acres 
 what  I  would  give  and  I  tell  her  this 
 all  the  time  what  I'd  give  for  your  two 
 acres  because  I  just  I  just  absolutely 
 love  it  but  she's  created  these 
 beautiful  Pathways  Meandering  through 
 her  Gardens  to  create  the  real  jungle 
 Vibe  and  she  was  telling  me  that  she 
 propagated  you  I  get  it  filad  andrians 
 are  common  thing  to  propagate  but  she 
 propagates  all  over  and  she  was  just 
 showing  me  at  this  is  from  this  cluster 
 that's  from  that  cluster  and  it's  just 
 doing  so  well  but  she  did  recently 
 plumbago  that  she's  had  from  other 
 gardeners  that  have  given  her  little 
 just  tiny  little  split-off  pieces  and 
 the  plumbago  has  done  so  well  agonas  do 
 so  well  any  kind  of  clumping  plant  that 
 provides  pups  for  you  you  can  split 
 those  guys  off  very  little  roots  and  pop 
 them  into  the  ground  somewhere  else  now 
 with  the  plumbago  she  did  tell  me  that 
 the  best  thing  to  do  is  to  let  it  dry 
 out  for  a  couple  days  then  put  it  in  the 
 ground  so  um  I  I  guess  I'm  going  to  try 
 that  next  we  Vago  but  but  now  let's  get 
 to  the  very  next  um  the  very  next  Plant 
 so  you  guys  we  are  back  where  we  started 
 but  instead  of  talking  about  the  dwarf 
 aloca  we  actually  talking  about  the 
 grouping  behind  them  which  is  the 
 beautiful  mentioned  agonas  so  these  are 
 also  a  clumping  plant  let  me  see  if  I 
 can  get  back  here  Excuse  Me  Miss  so  as 
 you  can  see  here  these  guys  have  gotten 
 chunky  they're  a  good  3ft  tall  really 
 clumped  out  and  filled  in  this  back  area 
 which  is  exactly  their  job  and  I 
 appreciate  their  service  because  they 
 are  exactly  what  I  wanted  in  this 
 particular  spot  however  they're  going  to 
 start  to  get  a  little  bit  lanky  and 
 they're  competing  a  little  bit  with  the 
 um  with  the  dwarf  alas  so  all  I'm  going 
 to  do  is  I'm  not  going  to  do  it  today 
 because  I'm  just  going  to  show  you  what 
 I  did  previously  I  got  a  littlee  of 
 myself  um  a  couple  weeks  ago  and 
 propagated  some  some  cuttings  from  this 
 one  already  but  it  was  over  into  this 
 area  so  all  I  did  was  just  take  off  and 
 it's  so  easy  you  just  cut  the  stem 
 itself  I  picked  in  between  the  nodes  so 
 the  nodes  are  these  little  lines  here  I 
 just  picked  in  between  those  and  cut  it 
 and  then  propagated  and  put  the  top  of 
 this  plant  into  another  section  of  the 
 Garden  and  we're  going  to  go  over  there 
 and  see  how  those  are  doing  they're 
 flushing  out  they're  gorgeous  they've 
 got  new  growth  on  them  and  um  they  just 
 did  not  even  miss  a  beat  so  all  you  have 
 to  do  is  slice  them  now  I  normally  slice 
 them  at  an  angle  I  do  let  those  guys  dry 
 out  for  a  day  and  then  I  put  them  into 
 the  ground  so  I  um  love  how  they  turned 
 out  let  me  show  you  those  over  here 
 that's  this  little  clustering  right  here 
 I  wanted  some  peekaboo  um  silver  Bays 
 kind  of  coming  up  over  this  area  you  can 
 see  we've  got  a  little  bit  of  stress 
 that  happen  from  the  leaves  individually 
 if  that  happens  do  not  worry  that  is  a 
 normal  thing  to  happen  when  you  when 
 you're  doing  transplanting  you're  going 
 to  get  some  leaves  that  has  some 
 Browning  on  them  but  it  has  got  new 
 growth  all  through  the  middle  of  it  new 
 leaves  have  shot  out  just  flush  and 
 gorgeous  and  it  is  nice  and  rooted  in 
 you  can  tell  that  it's  taken  and  I'm 
 very  very  very  happy  with  what  it's 
 achieved  and  I  left  on  more  leaves  than 
 I  normally  do  because  I  really  did  want 
 to  see  as  much  as  possible  right  away 
 you  can  take  off  some  of  those  lower 
 leaves  and  it'll  take  the  stress  off 
 just  like  I  do  that  with  my  Brazilian 
 Red  cloaks  you  can  take  off  those  lower 
 leaves  and  just  keep  the  top  leaves  on 
 and  then  put  them  right  in  the  ground 
 and  all  you  do  is  stick  them  right  in 
 the  ground  and  anytime  I  think  about  a 
 plant  that  gets  stuck  right  in  the 
 ground  I  almost  always  have  to  give  an 
 honorable  mention  to  the  quarter  lines 
 you  know  you  guys  know  I  love  quarter 
 lines  I  have  them  in  my  front  I  have 
 them  in  my  side  I  have  them  in  my  back  I 
 have  them  in  my  backside  I  have  them  I 
 have  them  everywhere  and  I  absolutely 
 love  what  they  do  in  the  garden  and  I 
 love  how  you  can  propagate  them  and  and 
 make  them  beautiful  I'm  going  to  show 
 you  a  little  clustering  that  I 
 propagated  about  gosh  it's  been  about 
 it's  been  about  a  month  now  and  you're 
 going  to  get  to  see  what  they  look  like 
 when  they're  when  they're  young  and 
 they're  they're  propagated  they're  not 
 beautiful  they're  they  haven't  had  a 
 chance  to  really  flush  out  yet  but 
 you'll  see  what  they  look  like  and  what 
 the  stress  looks  like  in  them  so  these 
 guys  right  here  all  I  did  was  take  the 
 tops  off  of  some  of  mine  that  I  just 
 didn't  need  in  a  particular  spot  so  I 
 just  took  the  whole  top  off  sliced  it  at 
 an  angle  I  did  not  let  this  one  dry  out 
 I  put  them  right  into  the  ground  and 
 voila  it  is  happy  it's  healthy  now  I 
 noticed  that  the  exoticas  with  which  is 
 what  this  variety  is  stress  a  little  bit 
 more  and  they've  done  that  every  single 
 one  that  I've  transplanted  has  done  that 
 and  you  can  see  that  these  brown 
 leaves  that  are  coming  off  really  easy 
 that  is  stress  from  The  Cutting  and  the 
 transplant  so  you  can  kind  of  take  those 
 right  off  and  maybe  I  just  should  have 
 done  that  at  the  time  of  planting  that 
 is  a  normal  thing  and  then  all  of  a 
 sudden  it'll  promote  and  push  out  New 
 Growth  all  over  the  place  but  I  would 
 say  in  this  whole  grouping  here  60%  of 
 this  clustering  that  you  see  here  is  all 
 from  trimmings  all  from  cuting  so  it's 
 almost  like  when  you  go  to  trim  your 
 yard  and  you  have  plants  and  trees  that 
 are  in  that  yard  that  are  going  to  give 
 you  more  like  I  love  to  say  they  pay 
 rent  they're  going  to  give  you  more 
 plants  in  the  garden  just  from  doing 
 that  you  know  doing  that  duty  of 
 trimming  then  it  is  so  so  worth  it  so 
 you  guys  get  out  in  your  yard  trim  those 
 plants  off  find  little  collections  or 
 spots  of  them  in  the  garden  if  there  are 
 other  plants  and  trees  that  just  like  oh 
 my  gosh  this  has  done  so  great  I've 
 literally  farmed  these  in  this  part  of 
 my  garden  or  that  part  of  my  garden 
 please  leave  in  the  comments  down  below 
 I  would  I'd  love  to  hear  it  and  I  know 
 others  would  too  so  just  spread  the  word 
 because  Florida  plants  in  general  can  be 
 really  really  tough  to  um  to  work  with 
 so  anytime  we  have  success  I  kind  of 
 want  to  scream  it  from  the  rooftop  so 
 all  right  you  guys  I  hope  this  video  was 
 helpful  keep  a  look  at  we  have  a  book 
 coming  out  that  is  going  to  list  our  50 
 of  our  toughest  Florida  plants  and  trees 
 as  well  as  details  about  each  and  every 
 one  of  them  where  to  plant  them  where 
 they  love  to  be  planted  and  combinations 
 that  they  love  to  be  planted  with  so 
 that  way  you  kind  of  get  a  general 
 running  Head  Start  onto  creating  your 
 tropical  garden  if  this  is  kind  of  a 
 look  that  you  like  for  your  own  space  so 
 we  will  as  soon  as  that's  available  we 
 will  put  the  link  in  the  description  of 
 all  of  our  videos  so  please  check  those 
 out  and  I  will  see  you  guys  in  the  very 
 next  video  thank  you  so  much  for 
 visiting  do  not  forget  to  comment  true 
 Gardener  you  true  gardeners  and  if  you 
 guys  have  liked  this  video  then  you 
 really  might  like  this  video  over  here 
 it  is  going  to  be  three  of  my  unlikely 
 favorites  into  my  whole  garden  and  I 
 have  a  lot  of  favorites  so  this  was  a 
 very  hard  video  for  me  to  make  you  know 
 so  I  hope  you  guys  appreciate  that  so 
 check  out  this  video  I  think  it's  very 
 informative  and  fun  take  care

---

 so  hey  gardeners  welcome  back  we  are  in 
 my  backyard  yet  again  buau  Beach  Florida 
 and  I  welcome  you  back  to  my  garden  I 
 wanted  to  share  with  you  guys  what  my 
 plants  and  trees  are  looking  like  in 
 this  winter  season  I  know  so  many  of  you 
 guys  are  new  gardeners  and  you  may  have 
 planted  earlier  in  the  year  and  you're 
 seeing  a  change  in  your  plants  and  trees 
 you're  seeing  them  you  know  a  little 
 lackluster  to  them  or  maybe  losing  some 
 leaves  or  or  doing  this  or  that  and  then 
 I  I  A  lot  of  times  I  get  calls  even  from 
 clients  that  I've  worked  with  earlier  in 
 the  year  is  this  normal  is  that  normal 
 so  I  thought  let  me  do  a  video  on  what 
 is  normal  what  they're  supposed  to  look 
 like  in  the  winter  even  though  that 
 we're  in  Florida  and  we  have  barely  a 
 change  in  season  it  is  a  little  chilly 
 today  so  I  thought  you  know  let  me  let 
 me  guys  show  you  guys  what  these  plants 
 are  going  to  go  what  they're  going  to  do 
 and  then  reassure  you  that  they're  going 
 to  bounce  back  and  then  towards  this 
 morning  it  was  44  Bryce  said  it  was  44 
 this  morning  which  is  like  Burr  you  know 
 and  then  we  did  have  a  39  night  earlier 
 in  the  week  so  you  know  you  know  we  get 
 some  snaps  and  so  they're  they're 
 reacting  to  those  things  and  so  just 
 hopefully  this  calms  some  nerves  but  at 
 the  end  of  the  video  I  want  to  share 
 with  you  guys  some  plants  and  trees  that 
 are  like  like  bad  mamajamas  in  the 
 winter  I  mean  like  they're  even  they're 
 looking  their  best  so  hopefully  that'll 
 help  some  of  you  guys  who  are  only  here 
 in  the  winter  season  say  oh  my  gosh  I'm 
 kind  of  want  to  load  my  garden  up  with 
 these  few  plants  that  are  really  just 
 going  to  do  super  super  well  and 
 flourish  and  be  gorgeous  while  I'm  here 
 instead  of  having  a  little  blackluster 
 winter  so  I  I'm  hoping  this  video  does 
 dual  purpose  in  those  things  so  all 
 right  you  gardeners  let's  start  um  let's 
 start  back  here  with  my  croin  so  as  you 
 can 
 see  these  are  my  ice  tone  croin  I  will 
 pop  in  or  actually  have  Bryce  um  my 
 Miracle  Worker  pop  in  what  these  guys 
 look  like  um  in  in  the  summertime  and 
 the  rest  of  the  year  two  months  out  of 
 the  year  they  look  like  this  and  they 
 kind  of  look  like  a  a  black  drabby  not 
 very  happy  like  it's  lost  every  bit  of 
 GL  loss  in  this  Leaf  during  the  winter 
 it's  like  it's  just  preserving  all  of 
 its  energy  just  to  stay  alive  and  that's 
 exactly  what  they  do  I'm  used  to  them 
 going  kind  of  a  coppery  color  um  cottin 
 do  that  Queen  crpe  myrtles  do  that  even 
 though  they  keep  their  leaves  all  year 
 long  they  just  lose  that  lackluster  you 
 know  coloring  to  them  and  then  the  ones 
 that  do  hang  on  to  a  little  bit  of  that 
 color  like  the  ones  we're  going  to  see 
 here  in  just  a  moment  are  like  the  Petra 
 cottin  they  will  keep  more  of  their 
 color  they'll  still  go  darker  like  you 
 see  here  like  this  is  still  a  leaf  from 
 the  summer  you  can  see  the  difference 
 you  can  see  this  coloration  this  is 
 Young  color  now  from  the  winter  and  what 
 that  looks  like  I  mean  it's  just  it's 
 just  a  little  dimmer  a  little  cloudier  a 
 little  bit  you  know  dber  and  then  what 
 they'll  also  do  is  of  course  we  all  know 
 plants  and  trees  kind  of  go  to  a 
 standstill  or  a  slow  growth  rate  during 
 the  winter  months  but  that  Leaf  color 
 changes  and  it  seems  like  it  lasts  until 
 about  about  early  spring  and  then  all 
 that  new  color  pops  out  super  fast  with 
 gorgeous  gorgeous  like  flame  color  it's 
 like  it's  almost  like  hello  spring  so 
 crotin  will  do  that  crotin  will  lose 
 their  color  they'll  lose  their  shine  and 
 they'll  drop  the  bottom  of  the  leaves 
 and  I'll  get  Bryce  to  pop  in  a  a  a  video 
 clip  of  my  gold  dusts  that  are  over 
 there  and  you  can  see  all  of  those  lower 
 leaves  are  just  gone  even  my  um  like  my 
 banana  leaf  croin  here  which  I  these 
 lady  Claire's  they're  gorgeous  but  they 
 won't  grow  any  of  those  lowerer  leaves 
 they'll  drop  them  all  and  it's  almost 
 like  a  protective  mechanism  they  just 
 drop  those  for  stress  I  guess  you  know 
 they  always  do  that  and  croin  do  that  so 
 if  you  guys  are  only  here  during  the 
 winter  months  then  croin  may  not  be  your 
 thing  because  they  really  shine  most  of 
 the  year  I  would  say  9  to  10  months  out 
 of  the  Year  depending  on  our  cold  cycle 
 you  know  in  Florida  but  9  to  10  months 
 out  of  the  year  they're  fabulous  they're 
 blooming  they're  not  blooming  but 
 they're  aggressive  with  color  they  had  a 
 nice  big  striking  impact  to  the  Garden 
 but  during  the  winter  months  they  you 
 know  they  they  leave  a  lot  to  be  desired 
 so  they  might  be  not  you  know  the  plant 
 of  choice  for  for  the  winter  season  um 
 another  plant  that  I  am  in  love  with  you 
 guys  know  this  this  is  my  like  one  of  my 
 favorite  ground  plants  my  um  my  fillers 
 for  the  garden  which  is  sesia  sesia  is  a 
 beautiful  beautiful  plant  to  me  that 
 gives  great  striking  color  into  kind  of 
 a  shade  environment  or  midson 
 environment 
 um  plant  grouping  and  they  do  fantastic 
 in  the  um  in  the  summer  in  the  fall  the 
 rest  of  the  year  but  the  two  months  in 
 the  winter  they  can  get  kind  of  kind  of 
 unhappy  they  they  can  burn  they  can  um 
 like  weep  a  bit  and  I'm  going  to  show 
 you  two  examples  of  um  sesia  I  have  one 
 in  this  front  area  that  we 
 trimmed  about  I  guess  it  was  early  fall 
 normally  I  don't  trim  heavy  early  fall 
 um  I  do  a  um  a  hard  Trim  in  the  Summers 
 and  a  light  trim  in  the  fall  giving  as 
 much  foliage  as  possible  that's  a  great 
 way  to  protect  your  plants  but  this  one 
 had  to  be  trimmed  because  we  needed  to 
 do  a  little  clean  out  around  the  pond  so 
 we  cut  it  back  but  since  we  did  that  it 
 let  it  just  left  these  guys  burnt  and 
 very  very  vulnerable  so  if  there's  any 
 way  that  you  guys  can  not  trim  heavy  in 
 the  fall  just  do  almost  a  selective  like 
 if  something's  covering  something  cut 
 that  but  leave  as  much  foliage  because 
 we're  we're  plants  will  insulate 
 themselves  that's  what's  great  about  my 
 back  Garden  a  lot  of  these  plants  in 
 this  grouping  are  you  know  right  on  the 
 border  of  um  our  zones  so  they  could 
 technically  freeze  in  Vero  Beach  perfect 
 for  Stewart  or  Palm  City  or  that  area 
 but  Vero  Beach  is  kind  of  on  the  Tipping 
 Point  so  um  you  know  we  get  a  really 
 really  good  cold  snap  they  could  freeze 
 but  I'm  not  as  worried  about  them  in  my 
 particular  Garden  because  I  have  a  wind 
 break  of  this  back  clusia  hedge  and  all 
 of  these  Palm  prawns  and  then  it  has  has 
 a  nice  kind  of  insulated  feel  with  plant 
 grouping  amongst  plant  grouping  amongst 
 plant  grouping  which  kind  of  gives  it 
 more  of  a  concealment  Factor  you  know 
 they  they  insulate  themselves  so  it's 
 almost  like  a  a  natural  little 
 rainforest  you  know  where  everything  is 
 really  condensed  and  thick  so  so  they  do 
 that  for  themselves  a  lot  but  in  this 
 particular  grouping  we  had  to  do  a  hard 
 cut  back  because  they  got  too  big  and 
 you  can  really  see  that  on  the  leaves 
 you  can  see  tons  and  tons  of  burn  on 
 these  sesia  and  they'll  Wilt  even  more 
 as  the  season  goes  on  because  these  are 
 quite 
 vulnerable  and  I  did  that  to  them  I  made 
 them  vulnerable  I  feel  like  I  should 
 apologize  but  um  you'll  see  in  the  in 
 the  back  further  down  a  little  bit  along 
 the  same  row  just  20t  that  way  where  I 
 didn't  cut  those  and  they're  fully 
 insulated  and  you  see  not  an  ounce  of 
 burn  so  if  you  can  let  your  San  cheio 
 during  that  time  of  the  year  just  kind 
 of  really  be  chunky  and  full  and  thick 
 it'll  protect  itself  so  you  guys  can  see 
 the  situation  that  um  that  39  38  degree 
 night  it  it  burnt  a  lot  of  the  things  in 
 my  garden  and  the  sesia  are  notoriously 
 a  little  bit  delicate  so  um  but  look  at 
 this  grouping  that  hasn't  been  trimmed 
 since  late  late  um  summer  it  is  so  nice 
 and  full  I  mean  can  a  little  bit  of 
 brown  tip  here  and  there  but  overall 
 this  grouping  is  just  Lush  and  gorgeous 
 and  very  very  happy  nothing  like  the 
 trimmed  version  and  so  just  leave  your 
 plants  a  little  bit  Fuller  a  little  bit 
 thicker  a  little  bit  overgrown  during 
 the  winter  season  and  then  cut  them  back 
 right  in  Spring  and  oh  my  goodness 
 you'll  just  be  so  rewarded  by  what 
 they're  how  long  you  get  to  keep  the 
 beauty  and  as  I  mentioned  I  was  going  to 
 list  a  few  plants  that  really  did  well 
 um  during  the  winter  season  and  could 
 handle  some  of  those  blasts  and  still 
 stay  beautiful  but  look  at  these  Burl 
 Marks  here  I  mean  they're  just  shiny  and 
 happy  and  just  really  I  mean  they  do 
 like  a  dense  planting  so  make  sure  you 
 do  plant  them  in  kind  of  a  thick 
 grouping  like  this  but  look  how  shiny 
 and  happy  they  are  they're  just  not  even 
 at  all  affected  by  the  few  cold  snaps 
 that  we've  already  had  and  I  every  year 
 I'm  always  astonished  by  those  I  trim 
 those  back  really  heavily  in  March  so 
 April  May  June  they're  just  stunners 
 another  plant  that  is  exceptional  in  the 
 garden  is  the  Agave  I  mean  they  just 
 handle  the  cold  temps  like  they  don't 
 even  they  just  breathe  right  by  it  so 
 they're  very  structural  they're  my 
 formfitting  kind  of  almost  a  formal  look 
 in  the  garden  and  they  just  do  fantastic 
 in  the  winter  months  they  keep  their 
 Leaf  color  they're  just  they're  just  so 
 such  a  cool  little  feature  this  is  the 
 fals  Agave  the  male  version  these  right 
 here  down  below  are  the  fox  tail  Agave 
 through  here  and  then  the  flame  agave 
 and  they're  just  they're  young  they're 
 still  all  still  kind  of  babies  they're 
 new  planting  here  but  they're  doing  so 
 well  and  they  were  only  planted  about  2 
 months  ago  and  still  they're  handling 
 some  of  those  cold  drops  without  a  brown 
 mark  on  them  so  they're  definitely  one 
 of  those  things  that  if  you  guys  are 
 only  here  part  of  the  year  and  you 
 really  get  to  enjoy  your  winter  months 
 here  which  I  think  is  awesome  CU  you 
 don't  have  to  deal  with  some  of  our 
 summer  Heats  then  agave  and  a  few  of 
 these  other  things  that  we're  talking 
 about  are  really  going  to  be  a  great 
 thing  to  incorporate  into  your  garden 
 and  let's  check  out  a  few  more  up  front 
 I  get  a  lot  of  questions  about  the  anti- 
 lose  and  I  have  a  subscriber  Cindy  who 
 is  fabulous  and  she  had  some  questions 
 in  regard  to  her  anti  L  and  why  they 
 were  not  doing  well  this  time  of  the 
 year  and  I  want  you  guys  to  know  I  mean 
 I  know  that  I  have  shared  this 
 particular  grouping  with  y'all  during 
 different  parts  of  the  Year  spring 
 summer  fall  even  but  winter  I  mean  we're 
 in  January  it  is  cold  and  they  don't 
 like  it  so  winter  anti-  L  quarter  lines 
 in  general  are  not  happiest  in  the 
 winter  they're  going  to  have  this 
 Browning  they're  going  to  have  this 
 dullness  to  the  leaf  they're  going  to 
 almost  look  like  they've  had  the  flu  for 
 two  months  so  they're  not  going  to  be 
 their  kindest  prettiest  version  of 
 themselves  they  also  will  tear  a  little 
 bit  with  some  of  the  winter  storms  and  I 
 wanted  to  be  so  transparent  because  I 
 know  you  all  get  to  see  them  in  their 
 glory  and  their  beauty  and  I  you  know  I 
 appreciate  sharing  those  moments  with 
 you  guys  and  those  very  long  months  that 
 we  do  get  the  benefit  of  them  but  there 
 is  a  couple  months  of  the  year  where 
 they  don't  have  their  makeup  on  they 
 just  you  know  they  just  not  looking 
 their  best  and  those  times  of  the  year  I 
 put  up  with  them  I  just  let  them  be  you 
 know  who  they  are  and  then  I  know  that 
 you  know  in  two  months  they're  going  to 
 be  absolutely  stunning  yet  again  so  the 
 best  thing  to  do  with  these  guys  is  make 
 sure  they  get  a  little  extra  water  in 
 the  winter  quarter  lines  dry  out  very 
 easily  so  Cindy  water  your  quarter  lines 
 really  really  well  during  this  time  of 
 the  year  so  maybe  three  times  a  week  if 
 you  can  with  maybe  good  saturation  of 
 water  if  you  could  Mulch  and  that's  for 
 everybody  in  December  I  kind  of  do  a 
 touch-up  of  mulch  in  all  of  my  garden 
 that  mulch  is  exposed  because  it  holds 
 that  moisture  it  insulate  those  leaves 
 and  it  kind  of  you  know  it  kind  of  lets 
 the  plants  know  that  they're  a  little 
 bit  more  protected  those  of  you  guys  who 
 have  like  these  plants  or  even  some  of 
 the  plants  that  we  talked  about  earlier 
 if  you  have  them  in  more  of  a  where  the 
 wind  is  blocked  like  along  a  a  wall  or 
 maybe  around  some  Boulders  where  they're 
 retaining  some  of  that  heat  they're 
 going  to  do  a  whole  lot  better  in  that 
 kind  of  environment  so  anytime  you  can 
 incorporate  a  boulder  or  actually  put 
 some  of  your  stunning  real  your 
 Tropicals  along  a  brick  wall  that 
 retains  that  heat  during  from  the  day 
 into  the  night  they're  going  to  do  tons 
 tons  better  so  I  hope  that  helps  but 
 mulch  mulch  mulch  during  that  time  of 
 the  year  because  it  it  really  does  kind 
 of  give  them  a  little  barrier  between 
 our  cold  snaps  but  now  let  me  touch  on  a 
 couple  things  that  love  this  time  of  the 
 year  so  hop  on  over  here  with  me  and 
 take  a  peek  at  these  gorgeous  Blaze 
 copper  leaf  now  these  Blaze  were  another 
 things  that  were  they  were  trimmed  just 
 before  for  the  season  so  you  can  kind  of 
 see  I  still  have  some  open  stocks  and 
 some  baby  leaves  here  but  all  of  these 
 baby  leaves  my  goodness  you  guys  all  of 
 them  are  popping  out  with  that  brilliant 
 color  they're  like  poinsettas  they're 
 just  like  they  they  love  the  cold  snap 
 look  at  this  new  growth  it  is  just 
 fabulous  with  that  vibrant  color  now 
 Blaze  naturally  comes  out  with  new 
 growth  that  has  a  beautiful  vibrant 
 coloration  but  when  we  get  a  little 
 cooler  so  starting  in  the  fall  that'll 
 become  more  pink  all  the  way  around  and 
 you'll  get  more  tones  of  that 
 variegation  pink  which  I  think  are 
 fascinating  but  I'll  get  Bryce  to  share 
 with  you  guys  some  of  the  points  setas 
 over  here  who  do  the  exact  same  thing  I 
 mean  you  guys  all  know  those  of  you  guys 
 who've  got  these  potted  plants 
 everywhere  when  they  come  out  with  the 
 cold  snaps  the  leaves  just  Bloom 
 beautifully  I've  got  a  couple  poinsettas 
 in  the  grounds  and  all  year  long  they're 
 nice  and  green  and  lovely  but  during  the 
 winter  months  it's  like  when  they  say 
 what  hello  winter  and  they  pop  out  with 
 that  just  gorgeous  color  so  I  love  that 
 time  of  the  year  and  the  blaze  copper 
 leaf  the  Java  white  copper  leaves  all  do 
 the  same  the  colors  become  more  just 
 more  poignant  they're  just  they  like 
 really  really  like  draw  the  eye  so  I 
 love  what  they  offer  during  those  times 
 of  the  year  so  you  know  if  you  guys  are 
 from  you  know  only  here  part  of  the  year 
 or  you  want  some  winter  interest  and 
 you've  got  tons  of  Summer  interest 
 incorporate  those  Blaze  copper  leaf  to 
 kind  of  give  you  that  nice  balance  of 
 Pops  of  color  when  everything  else  is 
 getting  a  little  duller  and  a  little  bit 
 sleepy  so  let's  check  these  out  over 
 here  you  know  it's  hit  or  miss  with  the 
 um  with  these  guys  when  it  comes  to  the 
 winter  months  now  I've  seen  them  in 
 drier  environments  where  they're  in  the 
 ground  and  they're  not  getting  so  much 
 water  where  they're  just  flourishing  and 
 they're  doing  fantastic  but  many  times 
 when  we're  getting  tons  and  tons  of  rain 
 that  bring  that  cold  front  in  these 
 Bugan  Vilas  are  not  happy  Bas  do  not 
 like  rain  what  makes  them  bloom  and 
 create  this  gorgeous  color  is  the 
 stretch  in  them  and  that  causes  I  mean 
 that's  caused  by  lack  of  water  and  when 
 you  get  too  much  water  they  can  dull  out 
 and  kind  of  just  do  this  kind  of  a 
 middle  of  the  row  of  a  bunch  of  spotted 
 leaves  they're  not  super  happy  they're 
 just  a  little  bit  LED  and  I  know  it 
 seems  like  I  still  have  tons  of  Bloom 
 this  is  some  Bloom  left  over  from  late 
 fall  but  they're  getting  ready  to  curl 
 up  and  you  know  kind  of  die  off  on  us 
 but  during  the  summer  these  trees  and 
 these  pots  are  just  FL  flooded  with 
 color  but  when  those  winter  rains  come 
 in  they  just  kind  of  show  the  signs  of 
 it  and  they  thin  out  and  they  just  kind 
 of  give  us  some  green  leaves  and  they're 
 gorgeous  green  leaves  I  I  can  totally 
 live  with  that  but  I  do  love  that  summer 
 and  spring  color  when  they  just  really 
 flush  out  with  just  all  of  that  gorgeous 
 color  so  during  the  winter  just  don't 
 expect  your  Bugan  Villas  to  be  the 
 showstoppers  they  are  during  the  summer 
 or  at  least  in  my  case  that's  what 
 happens  so  for  those  of  you  guys  who 
 have  palm  trees  in  the  garden  and  you're 
 not  quite  sure  how  they're  going  to  hand 
 handle  the  winter  season  overall  if 
 they're  established  palm  trees  like  you 
 see  here  um  they're  going  to  do  fabulous 
 they're  going  to  do  fantastic  because 
 they  have  significant  Roots  way  into  the 
 ground  where  they're  gaining  warmth 
 they're  insulated  they're  going  to  do 
 great  you  might  notice  that  on  the 
 leaves  during  the  winter  months  that 
 they're  more  yeah  they're  more  like 
 lackluster  they're  not  shiny  and  green 
 and  like  polished  you  know  like  they 
 need  a  little  bit  dusting  during  the 
 during  the  winter  months  but  that's 
 about  it  um  if  we  get  a  cold  snap  that 
 is  just  like  my  gosh  it's  the  end  of  the 
 world  you  see  it  all  over  the  news 
 everybody's  freaking  out  it  will  not 
 hurt  to  take  your  p  take  the  Palms  that 
 you've  got  and  wrap  them  with 
 incandescent  lights  and  just  you  know 
 add  a  little  bit  of  warmth  around  that 
 if  you  can't  get  it  all  the  way  to  the 
 top  do  not  fret  it's  the  bottom  that  you 
 really  need  to  be  concerned  about  so 
 kind  of  wrap  them  around  the  bottom  hold 
 that  heat  and  that  moisture  wrap  a 
 blanket  around  there  pin  it  down  and 
 then  you're  kind  of  really  helping  kind 
 of  hold  that  heat  in  place  it's  like 
 tucking  it  in  yeah  it's  like  tucking  it 
 in  for  the  night  Bryce  said  you  know 
 it's  just  kind  of  like  giving  it  a 
 little  bit  of  little  extra  warmth  that 
 that  kind  of  just  filters  up  the  tree 
 and  really  helps  now  trees  like  this  I 
 if  I  had  like  one  of  those  catastrophic 
 cold  snaps  that  come  through  and  you 
 know  they're  talking  about  on  the  news 
 and  everybody's  freaking  out  this  guy 
 just  because  he  is  one  of  my  favorite 
 Palms  I  have  my  bottle  Palms  my  rubicola 
 palms  or  laala  Palms  excuse  me  I  have 
 those  Palms  that  I  AB  absolutely  love 
 because  they're  young  they're  small 
 they're  just  you  know  one  of  my  trees 
 that  I  I  wouldn't  want  to  take  the 
 chance  of  having  too  much  damage  done  to 
 it  so  this  guy  I  might  take  it  and 
 completely  put  a  big  sheet  around  it  or 
 put  a  plant  blanket  around  it  and  then 
 wrap  those  trunks  the  bottoms  of  those 
 trunks  with  um  incandescent  lights  and 
 then  you  know  leave  it  on  there  and  last 
 year  we  were  expected  this  kind  of 
 Blizzard  of  cold  snaps  that  were  coming 
 through  Florida  and  so  I  was  so  worried 
 that  I  ended  up  wrapping  this  tree  and 
 all  of  my  my  bigger  trees  even  my 
 coconut  P  actually  I  still  have  it  on  my 
 coconut  palm  that's  so  terrible  I  know  I 
 still  have  it  on  my  coconut  palm  but  I 
 have  had  so  many  lights  wrapped  around 
 my  trees  and  I  started  that  in  December 
 thinking  that  you  know  I'm  going  to  have 
 it  for  Christmas  but  I  am  going  to  leave 
 my  lights  up  and  I  didn't  I  chose  the 
 non-  LED  fashion  for  the  ones  that  I  was 
 really  really  concerned  about  and  then 
 when  I  did  Cover  for  them  I  could  I  knew 
 the  heat  would  just  emanate  off  of  that 
 and  I  didn't  have  any  damage  I  was  very 
 very  pleased  and  it  was  you  know  it  was 
 on  feature  Palms  my  taller  Palms  I 
 wasn't  too  worried  about  but  it  was  on 
 these  things  that  I  really  just  didn't 
 want  to  take  the  chance  where  it  took 
 six  months  for  them  to  recover  and  do 
 well  I  do  the  same  thing  now  to  my 
 gingers  the  gingers  have  such  a  long 
 time  to  recover  and  I  love  my  red  cone 
 gingers  they're  just  gorgeous  by  the 
 pool  area  so  now  as  of  this  year  I'm 
 taking  and  I'm  wrapping  some  of  those 
 around  with  the  incandescent  lights  to 
 add  a  little  bit  of  warmth  to  that 
 Garden  so  I  don't  hopefully  have  to  cut 
 my  gingers  back  like  I  had  to  last  year 
 I  had  to  cut  them  back  to  the  ground 
 last  year  and  start  all  over  again  so 
 chica  I  know  chica's  a  subscriber  here 
 and  a  friend  and  she  she's  always  like 
 I'm  so  tired  of  cutting  my  gingers  back 
 every  year  they're  just  gorgeous  by  the 
 end  of  the  year  and  then  I  have  to  cut 
 them  back  again  and  she's  so  right  I  had 
 to  do  the  same  thing  with  mine  so  if  you 
 guys  add  those  lights  to  those  there  I 
 think  it  cost  me  $15  for  those  lights 
 and  it  just  saved  them  it  saved  them 
 from  being  you  know  massacred  and  then 
 they  flush  out  of  course  thank  goodness 
 but  you  know  they  saved  the  time  of 
 having  to  wait  for  them  to  flush  out  and 
 be  gorgeous  again  so  you  guys  use  those 
 lights  at  your  at  your  um  to  your 
 advantage  so  now  we're  going  to  go  out 
 front  and  I'm  going  to  share  with  you 
 one  plant  and  tree  that  does  fantastic 
 and  one  that  doesn't  do  fantastic  head 
 over  okay  so  I  know  I  mentioned  the 
 Agave  is  do  fabulous  look  at  him  out 
 here  shining  like  his  blue  star  that  he 
 is  is  he's  absolutely  great  doesn't  mind 
 handling  cold  temperatures  even  down 
 into  the  20s  not  a  problem  he's  great 
 the  things  that  are  a  problem  are  look 
 at  these  little  rubies  these  little  Ruby 
 Reds  my  goodness  you  guys  they  do  seed 
 during  the  winter  so  they  do  kind  of  you 
 know  repopulate  and  you  know  fill  out 
 and  thicken  up  they're  just  not  happy 
 they're  Woody  stems  during  the  winter 
 when  I  meet  with  clients  and  I'm  talking 
 about  using  them  two  months  out  of  the 
 Year  this  is  what  they  look  like  so  I 
 almost  have  to  show  a  picture  of  of  them 
 glossy  and  beautiful  and  purplish  red 
 now  you  do  have  the  option  of  cutting 
 these  guys  all  the  way  back  to  the 
 ground  maybe  leaving  maybe  3  or  4  Ines 
 and  they  will  flush  out  so  3  or  4  Ines 
 tall  during  this  time  of  the  year  when 
 they're  not  super  happy  or  not  super 
 beautiful  and  then  you're  not  missing 
 much  they're  just  it's  just  empty  in 
 this  bed  and  then  during  the  Spring  they 
 start  flushing  out  and  becoming  their 
 gorgeous  selves  you  could  do  that  I  do 
 technically  leave  mine  because  I  like  a 
 little  filler  I  don't  like  open  spots  in 
 the  garden  and  then  I  cut  them  all  back 
 just  before  spring  and  then  let  them 
 flush  out  with  all  new  growth  and  then 
 the  rest  of  the  year  they're  stunners  so 
 you  know  I  just  wanted  you  guys  to  see 
 like  in  all  transparency  I  love  it  when 
 you  look  at  Instagram  photos  and  things 
 are  just  like  gorgeous  and  everybody's 
 made  up  it  looks  like  there's  a  filter 
 on  everything  and  then  reality  this  is 
 reality  two  months  head  of  the  year  if 
 your  Ruby  Reds  look  like  this  it's  not 
 your  fault  that's  what  they  look  like 
 that's  what  croin  look  like  that's  what 
 anti-  look  like  it  is  not  anything  that 
 you're  doing  wrong  there's  some  things 
 that  you  can  do  to  help  those  things 
 along  the  way  during  this  winter  months 
 but  it's  nothing  that  isn't  normal  in  a 
 garden  so  I  hope  that's  if  there's 
 anything  that  you  take  away  from  this 
 video  it's  that  now  I  you  can  touch 
 these  guys  up  with  mulch  after  trimming 
 it  helps  you  know  keep  them  from 
 freezing  fully  back  so  you  can  trim 
 these  all  the  way  down  to  the  ground  and 
 mulch  over  top  of  them  and  insulate  them 
 and  then  they  will  come  back  in  the 
 spring  or  you  can  leave  them  just  like 
 like  this  and  mulch  them  and  add  a 
 little  extra  water  during  the  winter 
 months  and  they  they  handle  usually  the 
 cold  tempts  pretty  well  the  second  plant 
 in  this  grouping  is  the  poor  pin  wheel 
 Jasmine  my  goodness  look  at  how  bald 
 like  they're  literally  losing  leaves  as 
 as  we're  talking  right  now  they're 
 losing  leaves  they're  just  not  happy  now 
 I'm  going  to  get  Bryce  to  show  you  a 
 picture  of  what  these  guys  look  like  in 
 the  summer  in  the  spring  in  the  fall 
 because  they're  gorgeous  I  mean  they 
 have  the  white  blooming  flowers  hours 
 they  bloom  in  the  shade  they  bloom  in 
 the  partial  sun  they  bloom  in  Morning 
 Sun  they  just  they  they  can't  handle 
 that  full  afternoon  sun  but  everything 
 besides  full  afternoon  sun  they  bloom 
 they're  happy  they're  a  no  fuss  plant  so 
 please  don't  let  this  be  a 
 representation  of  what  the  what  these 
 jasms  offer  now  these  are  the  pin  wheel 
 Jasmine  I'm  not  a  big  a  fan  of  the  star 
 or  uh  the  Downey  Jasmine  not  because 
 they're  not  great  plants  but  I  don't 
 like  the  growth  pattern  of  them  shooting 
 up  individual  you  know  I  don't  know  what 
 they're  called  individual  stems  I  guess 
 just  like  crazy  I  like  the  way  these 
 guys  naturally  Mound  they  Mound 
 beautifully  they  flush  out  and  they're 
 fluffy  and  they're  soft  and  they  bloom  a 
 pin  wheel  looking  flower  that  is  just 
 absolutely  gorgeous  and  bright  so 
 especially  if  it's  in  a  dark  spot 
 they're  just  they're  stunners  but  they 
 do  not  like  the  cold  as  soon  as  the 
 first  cold  snap  happens  they  start 
 dropping  leaves  and  then  the  second  one 
 and  like  it's  just  like  over  time  like 
 it's  just  like  a  my  like  my  lab  just 
 drops  fur  as  it  walks  I  mean  it  just 
 Falls  everywhere  so  so  that's  kind  of 
 what  they  do  but  most  of  the  year 
 they're  absolutely  worth  their  weight  in 
 gold  so  I  hope  you  doesn't  discourage 
 you  from  the  um  pin  wheel 
 jasms 
 lastly  are  these  Brazilian  Red  cloaks  oh 
 gosh  you  guys  they  handle  the  cold 
 weather  like  a  champ  they  soon  become 
 the  top  of  the  list  of  beautiful 
 beautiful  big  clustering  buffer  kind  of 
 flowers  now  these  guys  are  on  the  front 
 corner  of  my  house  they're  hitting  the 
 most  Sun  I  mean  they  are  really  really 
 getting  the  harshness  of  the  Sun  but 
 what  they  also  got  is  we  had  three 
 storms  this  year  and  they  were  battered 
 to  Pieces  I'm  going  to  see  if  Bryce  can 
 post  a  picture  of  what  they  look  like 
 right  after  the  storm  because  they  had 
 no  protection  they're  right  on  the 
 corner  right  on  the  street  side  so 
 they've  got  tons  and  tons  and  tons  of 
 beating  from  all  of  that  weather  I  mean 
 we  had  tornadoes  that  took  out  100e  oak 
 trees  but  these  guys  managed  to  kind  of 
 combat  and  come  back  now  the  ones  in  the 
 back  I  did  an  experiment  I  cut  them 
 almost  all  the  way  back  to  about  2  feet 
 and  kind  of  layered  them  back  like  this 
 so  I  the  first  row  I  cut  down  to  two 
 feet  and  then  four  feet  and  then  six 
 feet  and  just  took  the  tops  of  them  off 
 took  all  the  pressure  off  and  let  them 
 flush  out  with  new  growth  and  the  knees 
 I  did  absolutely  nothing  after  the  storm 
 just  to  see  which  one  would  bounce  back 
 and  be  its  best  version  of  itself  faster 
 and  I  was  astonished  cuz  both  of  them 
 did  it  like  these  even  though  they  lost 
 a  bunch  of  Limbs  and  they  were  all  kind 
 of  cracked  and  you  know  looking  terrible 
 they  pop  back  with  new  growth  just  as 
 fast  as  the  ones  that  I  cut  back  so  when 
 I  have  a  plant  that  doesn't  allow  you  to 
 have  to  do  a  whole  lot  and  it's  going  to 
 it's  going  to  bounce  back  and  do  its 
 thing  I  always  like  mentioning  it  cuz  I 
 think  we're  all  kind  of  in  that  same 
 boat  where  you  know  little  is  better  and 
 these  guys  have  done  it  so  they  have 
 bounced  back  a  couple  months  later  they 
 have  they've  hit  our  39  40  kind  of 
 we've  had  a  few  of  those  nights  and  then 
 you  know  it's  they  just  we've  gotten 
 very  little  issues  now  I  will  tell  you 
 they  have  do  have  a  little  bouts  here 
 and  there  with  pests  and  that's  what's 
 happening  here  and  so  I  have  put  a 
 drench  on  them  recently  to  kind  of  give 
 them  another  um  shot  of  of  coming  back 
 but  all  the  new  growth  is  just  gorgeous 
 look  at  this  new  growth  that's  coming 
 back  and  bouncing  back  from  that  the 
 being  eaten  by  pests  and  I  know  that 
 Pest  Control  sounds  like  such  a  hard 
 thing  to  do  especially  for  those  of  you 
 guys  who  are  new  gardeners  but  it's 
 something  as  simple  as  mixing  an  ounce 
 of  the  product  in  with  a  jug  of  water 
 shaking  it  and  pouring  it  on  the  root 
 system  it  draws  up  from  the  root  system 
 it  feeds  your  plants  and  it  also 
 protects  them  so  it  it's  one  of  those 
 things  that  is  worth  its  weight  and  gold 
 do  it  for  them  during  cold  snaps  because 
 they're  weak  do  it  for  during  you  know 
 during  the  hurricane  season  or  um  Heavy 
 Rain  season  because  they're  weaker 
 because  they're  taking  on  that  extra 
 bout  think  of  it  as  like  a  flu  shot 
 anytime  that  you  think  that  you  would 
 need  a  flu  shot  because  of  your 
 circumstances  hit  them  with  a  pest 
 control  product  because  it  really  does 
 kind  of  just  give  them  that  little  Halo 
 of  protection  from  those  bugs  because  as 
 soon  as  they  get  weak  it's  almost  like  a 
 signal  to  the  bugs  and  the  pests  they 
 just  come  running  to  those  spots  take 
 that  five  minutes  that  it  takes  you  to 
 do  that  and  they  will  reward  you  every 
 time  you  come  home  every  time  you  drive 
 into  your  driveway  and  see  how  gorgeous 
 and  beautiful  un  Lush  they're  looking 
 all  right  you  guys  so  I  what  I  hope  you 
 got  from  this  video  is  that  there  are  a 
 few  handful  of  plants  that  do  fantastic 
 this  time  of  the  year  um  but  overall  um 
 the  things  like  croin  the  things  like  um 
 sesia  the  things  like  you  know  these 
 poor  pin  wheel  Jasmine  or  you  know 
 Jacob's  coat  or  um  which  is  the  little 
 rubies  and  um  you  know  certain  plants 
 like  that  are  just  you  know  just  not 
 happy  during  the  winter  and  if  that's 
 the  case  um  it's  not  your  fault  it's  not 
 something  that's  going  on  with  the 
 plants  not  anything  that  you  have  to  do 
 other  than  maybe  pump  up  the  water  a 
 little  bit  add  a  little  bit  of  mulch 
 that's  probably  all  that  you  can  do 
 during  that  time  of  the  year  to  help 
 them  kind  of  along  their  way  but  that  is 
 their  natural  course  that  is  what 
 happens  to  our  lovely  Gardens  um 
 throughout  all  over  Florida  it's  just 
 part  of  our  subtropical  tropical  nature 
 here  of  plants  and  trees  feel  free  to  be 
 okay  that  that's  what's  going  on  in  your 
 garden  so  for  those  of  you  guys  who  are 
 only  here  during  our  coldest  months  of 
 the  year  and  you  really  want  to 
 appreciate  and  enjoy  the  tropics  and  the 
 beautiful  gardens  then  you  know  I  hope 
 that  you  incorporate  some  of  those 
 plants  and  those  trees  that  I  had 
 mentioned  during  this  type  of  the  year 
 because  the  copper  leaves  they  show  off 
 in  the  winter  I  mean  the  colors  become 
 more  vibrant  and  glossy  and  gorgeous  and 
 full  and  you  know  they're  just  not  even 
 phased  by  our  cold  snap  so  check  those 
 out  the  Agave  I  mean  the  structural 
 accents  they  make  in  the  garden  are 
 beautiful  all  times  of  the  year  but  in 
 the  winter  you  know  they  show  themselves 
 off  as  well  so  you  know  there's  just 
 there's  a  few  plants  and  trees  that  just 
 really  just  kind  of  you  know  incorporate 
 them  enjoy  them  all  through  the  year  and 
 then  you  know  in  the  summer  you  know 
 you're  not  here  so  you  know  it's  just 
 going  to  look  green  but  you  know  enjoy 
 en  enjoy  some  of  those  plants 
 incorporate  some  of  those  plants  because 
 I  think  they're  really  going  to  give  you 
 what  you're  looking  for  for  the  time  of 
 the  year  that  you  get  to  enjoy  them  and 
 for  those  of  you  guys  who  are  worried 
 about  some  of  the  plants  some  of  those 
 sub  subtropical  plants  that  you  have  in 
 the  garden  and  you're  like  gosh  the 
 weather  uh  the  news  is  going  to  town 
 about  how  um  we're  going  to  get  this 
 massive  cold  front  the  the  ice  ages 
 happening  and  in  Florida  do  this  and  do 
 that  check  out  this  video  that  Bryce  and 
 I  um  have  posted  I'll  get  him  to  post  it 
 somewhere  above  my  finger  it'll 
 magically  appear  for  you  guys  and  it's  a 
 it's  a  question  and  answer  video  that 
 kind  of  shares  with  you  guys  some  things 
 that  you  can  do  to  really  help  protect 
 your  plants  and  trees  and  thank  you  guys 
 so  much  for  joining  me  at  my  home  again 
 please  comment  true  Gardener  you  true 
 gardeners  that  are  out  there  don't 
 forget  to  hit  the  bell  and  those  of  you 
 guys  who  like  this  kind  of  cont  content 
 Please  Subscribe  I  try  to  post  every 
 single  week  and  share  some  of  my 
 thoughts  and  tips  and  tricks  as  a 
 landscape  designer  in  this  area  for  over 
 25  years  I  have  made  my  mistakes  if  I 
 can  share  with  you  those  mistakes  and 
 those  successes  I  hope  it  helps  you  guys 
 create  the  perfect  garden  of  your  dreams 
 so  all  right  you  guys  I  will  see  you 
 next  week  in  the  very  next  video  take 
 care

---

 well  hey  gardeners  welcome  back  so  as 
 you  can  see  we  are  in  a  little  bit  of  a 
 different  setting  than  normal  so  today  I 
 am  taking  you  behind  the  scenes  kind  of 
 in  my  little  um  my  little  cave  area  of 
 where  I  do  my  designs  I  want  to  share 
 with  you  guys  kind  of  you  know  from  the 
 beginning  of  a  design  process  and  kind 
 of  what  we're  looking  at  as  far  as  the 
 rendering  goes  into  and  then  I'm  going 
 to  take  you  on  a  field  trip  and  just  a 
 second  and  we're  actually  going  to  go  to 
 this  project  that  we're  going  to  be 
 talking  about  so  you  can  kind  of  see  um 
 kind  to  see  it  in  real  time  you're  going 
 to  get  to  see  it  happen  you're  going  to 
 see  the  guys  kind  of  removing  some 
 things  out  going  to  see  some  me  putting 
 some  staks  in  representing  plants  and 
 trees  and  then  setting  up  the  projects 
 so  I  thought  this  might  be  just  just  a 
 fun  thing  to  share  and  for  those  of  you 
 guys  who  are  diyers  out  there  I  hope 
 this  video  is  it  kind  of  helps  kind  of 
 get  you  out  there  encourages  you  to  uh 
 kind  of  make  some  of  these  steps  and  uh 
 for  those  of  you  guys  who  are  just  like 
 me  and  just  enjoy  gardening  and  are 
 looking  for  um  just  a  fun  video  to  watch 
 about  gardening  that  then  please  enjoy 
 and  you  guys  do  not  forget  to  comment 
 true  Gardener  I  seen  so  many  true 
 gardeners  comments  lately  and  I  tell  you 
 it  makes  Bry  and  I  so  happy  so  thank  you 
 guys  so  much  to  know  that  you're  all  in 
 that  community  that  we're  all  in  this 
 community  together  so  um  yeah  so  let's 
 just  jump  right  into  the  design  process 
 here  we  go  obviously  after  this  is  all 
 cleared  out  kind  of  ready  to  start  the 
 design  after  this  point  I've  met  with  my 
 homeowner  and  we've  discussed  plant  tree 
 options  things  that  she  likes  things 
 that  she  doesn't  and  then  I  create  a  des 
 design  so  on  that  flat  surface  of  what 
 was  here  now  that  it's  gone  all  I  did 
 was  bring  in  the  trees  to  give  her  a 
 good  bit  visual  representation  of  what 
 the  new  plants  and  trees  are  going  to 
 look  like  I  know  it  seems  like  there  was 
 a  lot  going  on  there  I  should  have 
 prefaced  by  saying  that  this  house  was 
 hit  with  hurricane  Milton  and  those 
 tornadoes  that  followed  Milton  down 
 along  the  Beachside  area  and  just  did  so 
 so  much  damage  Cynthia  um  has  been 
 through  several  steps  of  cleanup  prior 
 to  us  even  doing  this  and  it  it  it 
 needed  quite  a  bit  of  work  the  very 
 first  thing  that  we  obviously  had  to  do 
 was  kind  of  get  it  back  to  Ground  Zero 
 get  it  all  cleaned  out  get  it  really 
 really  freshened  up  and  then  we  could 
 start  plantings  now  funny  enough  there 
 was  some  modifications  that  Cynthia  had 
 asked  to  do  so  this  actual  picture  we 
 had  to  amend  it  based  on  some  things 
 that  she  decided  that  she  wanted  to 
 change  color-wise  and  that's  the  great 
 part  about  working  with  clients  is 
 because  you  really  do  you  have  to  become 
 adaptable  so  be  adaptable  with 
 yourselves  if  you  guys  pick  these 
 certain  plants  or  trees  then  you  go  off 
 to  the  nursery  and  you  see  something 
 that  just  is  singing  to  you  then  change 
 your  mind  move  on  and  move  into  that 
 next  phase  and  so  when  Cynthia  did  that 
 I  CH  changed  gears  and  then  picked  up 
 what  she  was  looking  for  and  and  she's 
 in  love  with  the  final  product  so  it  is 
 going  to  be  a  little  bit  different  than 
 what  we  see  here  but  we  minimized  a 
 couple  things  like  the  clusia  along  the 
 rear  of  the  driveway  and  the  exor  and  we 
 change  them  to  something  different  and 
 change  the  center  area  to  something 
 different  but  ultimately  the  whole  goal 
 goal  is  for  my  design  to  match  my 
 client's  style  you  want  those  two  things 
 to  mesh  so  that's  always  been  very 
 important  for  me  it's  not  going  to 
 always  be  my  way  or  the  highway  and  um 
 so  so  be  kind  to  yourself  if  you  change 
 your  mind  in  the  middle  of  this  whole 
 process  so  we  are  going  to  step  right 
 over  to  the  job  site  now  and  um  I'm 
 going  to  share  with  you  guys  kind  of  the 
 finished  look  on  how  that  that  looks  and 
 then  we'll  walk  through  those  same  plant 
 tree  options  that  we  chose  and  why  we 
 chose  them  see  you  in  a  sec  all  right  so 
 here  we  are  you  guys  we  are  back  we  are 
 on  the  job  site  and  we  have  our  group  of 
 plants  that  we're  working  with  and  as 
 you  can  probably  see  I  mean  we  do  not 
 have  a  ton  of  material  to  work  with 
 which  is  what  I  love  we're  going  to 
 cover  a  lot  of  space  with  what  we  have 
 here  and  um  I'm  going  to  show  you  the 
 area  that  uh  that  we're  working  with 
 what  a  great  thing  to  to  share  with  you 
 guys  cuz  this  is  a  ginormous  Island 
 there  was  a  lot  of  debris  in  here  a  lot 
 of  unlevel  it  it  was  just  a  tough 
 project  to  work  with  and  then  on  top  of 
 it  they  were  hit  with  a  the  tornadoes 
 that  ran  through  Vero  so  it  just  got 
 damaged  upon  damage  so  we  removed  a 
 large  tree  that  was  here  stump  ground  it 
 um  really  cleared  out  leveled  this  area 
 so  it  has  a  nice  slope  and  drainage  runs 
 right  to  the  road  like  it's  meant  to  um 
 picked  up  these  Boulders  and  kind  of 
 repositioned  them  to  where  they're  going 
 to  go  and  these  are  our  anchors  this  is 
 what  kind  of  helped  support  this  bed  now 
 I  wanted  Big  Trees  um  bigger  trees  for 
 the  edges  because  this  island  is  so  big 
 but  you  guys  if  you're  starting  out  with 
 7  gallon  material  and  it's  you  know  5T 
 tall  and  it's  just  what  you  can  handle 
 and  work  with  put  in  seven  gon  fox  tails 
 that's  perfectly  fine  cuz  you  know 
 they're  going  to  get  some  serious  size 
 to  it  or  seven  gallon  King  Alexander  or 
 you  know  anything  along  those  lines  that 
 you  know  the  height  overall  is  going  to 
 give  you  that  height  that  you  need  for 
 this  island  this  is  the  triangle  fan 
 palm  she's  quite  young  um  so  she's  going 
 to  really  open  up  and  fan  out  and  become 
 the  centerpiece  but  this  steak  was  meant 
 to  kind  of  give  me  the  the  center  of  the 
 bed  she  wanted  a  little  bit  of  coverage 
 from  her  Windows  there  so  we  put  in  some 
 Pym  eight  Palms  as  backdrops  here  and 
 then  we  reused  her  Krum  lies  back  to  the 
 back  here  her  original  plan  had  some 
 kusas  that  back  to  give  her  more  privacy 
 or  I  may  have  put  another  pygmy  date 
 palm  in  this  particular  spot  but  you 
 know  we  all  have  budgets  that  we're 
 working  with  so  you  kind  of  have  to  find 
 out  what  what  is  going  to  create  the 
 biggest  impact  start  there  and  then  work 
 your  way  into  um  into  staying  in  Budget 
 on  you  know  on  your  accents  or  on  your 
 mediumsized  trees  so  that's  kind  of 
 where  we  are  here  next  step  now  is  to 
 bring  in  the  plants  and  the  coloration 
 so  you  guys  are  going  to  kind  of  see  how 
 that  whole  thing  set  up  and  then  in  a 
 moment  I'll  explain  to  you  the  reasons 
 why  I  chose  to  kind  of  create  those 
 levels  and  kind  of  how  everything  grows 
 low  to  large  to  the  back  so  Bryce  hit 
 the  fast  forward  button  see  you  in  a 
 second 
 [Music] 
 a 
 [Music] 
 all  right  so  here  we  are  you  guys  we  are 
 almost  at  the  finish  line  and  you  know 
 it's  it's  it's  a  lot  of  tweaking  in  a 
 lot  of  placing  you  can  see  that  I  was 
 going  around  with  the  paint  gun  and  I 
 have  a  fabulous  team  of  guys  who  do  the 
 the  final  setup  they  do  the  cleanup  the 
 clear  out  I  am  so  blessed  to  have  such  a 
 good  team  to  work  with  but  once  this  is 
 a  blank  slate  is  when  I  really  really 
 love  to  work  so  I  Mark  everything  with 
 paint  they  set  up  the  species  of  plants 
 that  I'm  asking  for  and  then  as  you  can 
 see  even  after  25  years  of  doing  this  I 
 still  look  at  the  space  after  marking 
 the  paint  and  tweak  and  adjust  and  move 
 um  that's  what  I  love  setting  up  with 
 pots  because  it  the  vision  really  just 
 it  comes  together  at  that  point  you 
 really  do  get  a  chance  to  see  kind  of 
 how  you  want  this  to  curve  this  way  and 
 that  to  curve  this  way  you  can  kind  of 
 see  how  the  growth  patterns  are  so  you 
 can  tweak  and  play  and  adjust  so  easy 
 with  these  three  gallon  and  seven  gallon 
 pots  to  make  it  just  the  way  you  want  it 
 and  that's  what  I  do  on  every  single  job 
 the  next  step  is  soing  the  rest  of  this 
 bed  and  then  we're  at  a  finished  product 
 so  we'll  be  right  back  in  a  second  to 
 show  you  guys  that  well  it's  done  2  Days 
 in  the  making  however  it  has  turned  out 
 so  well  so  I  am  going  to  just  unveil  the 
 front  Island  we  are  now  nearly  level 
 ground  here  it's  been  all  cleaned  up  of 
 old  trees  and  debris  and  really  really 
 come  together  with  a  tropical  landscape 
 so  you  guys  will  have  to  let  me  know 
 what  you  think  let  me  just  pop  in  um  a 
 quick  clip  of  me  going  over  the  plant 
 intrig  hair  with  Cynthia  that  way  you 
 guys  can  see  it  in  case  this  is 
 something  that  you  have  in  your  garden 
 or  thinking  about  putting  in  your  garden 
 and  uh  this  might  help  you  guys  out  it 
 looks  so  pretty  it  does  looks  so  pretty 
 hey  you  guys  I  have  Cynthia  with  me 
 Cynthia  is  the  lovely  homeowner  and 
 lovely  new  owner  to  her  gorgeous 
 landscaping  and  I  um  I'm  going  to  walk 
 through  with  her  on  how  to  kind  of 
 maintain  her  new  planting  garden  and 
 that's  really  important  any  of  you  guys 
 who  are  working  with  l  Cape  designers  or 
 contractors  see  if  they'll  take  that 
 time  with  you  because  they're  very 
 familiar  with  what  they  planted  they 
 kind  of  know  generally  how  this  is  all 
 going  to  unfold  over  the  years  so 
 they're  going  to  they're  going  to  be 
 really  good  to  ask  on  how  to  trim  when 
 to  trim  um  what  to  use  for  fertilization 
 and  how  often  to  do  it  right  here  we 
 have  the  fox  tail  double  fox  tail  pal 
 and  you're  going  to  fertilize  now  I  know 
 that  you  have  a  couple  different 
 fertilizing  mixes  now  that  it's  in  and 
 it's  getting  established  you're  going  to 
 want  to  use  the  8212  it's  just  a  great 
 granular  fertilizer  I  stick  my  8212  and 
 I  put  it  in  just  a  it's  kind  of  a  mop 
 bucket  I  just  put  it  in  a  mop  bucket  I 
 take  um  my  gloved  hand  and  then  all  I  do 
 is  I  take  and  I  use  about  three  big 
 handfuls  per  tree  so  I'll  just  take  that 
 and  sprinkle  that  all  the  way  around  the 
 tree  now  there's  you  can  use  the  bag 
 measurements  but  just  what  I'm  looking 
 at  that's  kind  of  the  way  that  I  do  it 
 my  hands  are  small  so  keep  that  in  mind 
 it's  going  to  filter  it's  a  slow  release 
 product  so  it's  going  to  take  about  3 
 months  for  all  of  those  nutrients  to 
 really  kind  of  filter  in  you  you  can 
 take  that  everything  in  this  bed  you  can 
 fertilize  with  the  8212  it's  all  in  the 
 tropical  family  so  all  of  these  will  do 
 super  super  well  with  that  mix  open 
 areas  of  mulch  just  take  that  handful 
 and  just  kind  of  like  chicken  feed  it 
 through  the  bed  and  you  just  kind  of 
 want  to  continue  doing  it  just  this  way 
 in  all  the  open  areas  cuz  what  we're 
 trying  to  do  is  we're  trying  to  get 
 these  plants  to  open  up  root  base  so  we 
 want  their  roots  to  kind  of  just  do  this 
 when  should  I  do  this  so  you're  going  to 
 want  to  do  this  3  months  from  now  so  we 
 just  planted  and  everything  went  in  with 
 a  good  fertilizer  dose  so  go  ahead  and 
 hit  it  in  3  months  on  average  I  know 
 you're  going  to  be  catching  up  you're 
 going  to  hit  it  um  starting  in  March  and 
 go  3  months  from  that  point  variegated 
 arbac  colas  we  want  them  to  connect 
 together  we  want  them  to  be  like  a 
 seamless  swath  a  bed  of  their  own  so  the 
 only  places  that  you're  going  to  be 
 really  trimming  is  right  along  the  rear 
 side  of  it  just  to  keep  them  so  they're 
 not  connecting  to  the  tree  and  right 
 along  the  the  variation  of  um  the  other 
 plant  grouping  so  you  kind  of  want  it  to 
 you  know  kind  of  have  a  nice  nice  little 
 slice  here  and  that's  pretty  much  it  um 
 every  time  I  trim  the  sides  I  do  a  light 
 trimming  on  these  tops  just  to  kind  of 
 keep  it  chunky  so  and  it's  pretty  much 
 anything  that  I  don't  like  the  height  of 
 so  like  I  might  just  take  this  little 
 top  section  off  of  this  so  that  way  it's 
 all  pretty  uniformed  and  so  a  really 
 really  easy  trim  it's  almost  like  just 
 kind  of  like  a  bouquet  whatever  you 
 don't  like  trim  that  off  but  the  whole 
 goal  is  to  let  these  widen  out  and 
 connect  with  each  other  they'll 
 naturally  do  that  because  everything  we 
 used  is  a  braided  plant  it  braids  at  the 
 top  so  it's  going  to  want  to  reach  and 
 grab  onto  something  next  to  it  and  um 
 that's  why  it's  good  to  have  one  species 
 together  and  then  a  break  and  then  the 
 next  species  so  it'll  connect  to  the  top 
 and  then  the  root  system  will  connect  to 
 the  bottom  so  whatever  you  fertilize 
 when  you  fertilize  that  one  this  one's 
 getting  it  too  and  these  are  Petra 
 crotin  for  those  of  you  guys  watching 
 and  they  just  do  a  fantastic  job  of 
 widening  out  and  getting  a  nice  size  by 
 the  time  that  these  are  4ot  tall  these 
 trees  will  be  three  foot  taller  and 
 you're  going  to  you're  going  to  be 
 pretty  much  just  covering  the  trunk  of 
 those  trees  and  that's  the  idea  is  just 
 for  the  layers  to  kind  of  come  up  and 
 cover  the  cover  the  less  attractive 
 things  in  the  garden  these  guys  can  be  a 
 bit  tricky  because  um  they  um  they  bloom 
 so  beautifully  all  year  long  and  nobody 
 wants  to  cut  them  like  nobody  wants  to 
 Dr  them  so  they're  they're  gorgeous  now 
 but  in  3  months  they're  going  to  be  even 
 more  gorgeous  and  mounding  and  you're 
 going  to  be  like  I  just  don't  want  to 
 because  they're  stunning  cut  them  anyway 
 so  they  do  need  air  inside  these  little 
 these  this  thickness  that  you  have  here 
 because  we  have  so  much  moisture  with 
 all  the  rain  and  the  and  the  watering 
 that  you're  going  to  do  so  all  you're 
 going  to  want  to  do  is  take  the  tops  of 
 them  off  so  just  kind  of  cut  with  your 
 Nippers  across  this  top  letting  some 
 more  air  in  here  so  that  way  there's  no 
 Brown  patching  or  no  fungus  that  starts 
 to  develop  in  this  middle  so  the  purpose 
 of  the  cutting  is  just  to  do  that  and  I 
 do  mine  every  quarter  just  every  yeah 
 every  three  months  I'll  come  in  and  just 
 do  a  light  cut  of  just  this  top  section 
 and  then  it'll  Mound  back  out  and  and 
 every  time  you  cut  it  you'll  get  more 
 Blooms  from  it  so  don't  feel  like  if 
 it's  to  fully  Bloom  you  avoid  cutting  it 
 go  ahead  and  cut  it  and  then  these  guys 
 I  think  we  talked  about  this  on  those 
 guys  earlier  but  the  best  way  to  do  this 
 is  once  once  this  this  starts  to  produce 
 in  here  it's  going  to  push  down  these 
 guys  so  these  limbs  that  are  close  to 
 the  ground  and  almost  touching  when 
 they're  down  like  this  all  you're  going 
 to  want  to  do  is  put  your  foot  on  that 
 limb  that's  right  there  and  slice  it  as 
 close  to  the  base  of  the  trunk  as  you 
 can  get  and  that's  a  couple  time  a  year 
 thing  it's  it's  just  as  needed  or  if  you 
 know  if  you  have  a  brown  limb  and  you 
 just  want  to  slice  it  it's  just  it's 
 super  easy  they're  such  aggressive 
 Growers  so  it's  going  to  be  fantastic 
 these  three  focal  points  will  be  5  foot 
 tall  like  this  they  are  going  to  be 
 stunners  it's  going  to  take  them  some 
 time  to  get  there  you  got  about  three 
 three  to  four  years  before  they  get  full 
 grown  but  oh  my  goodness  when  they  do 
 they're  going  to  be  they're  going  to  be 
 the  big  structure  in  the  garden  so  by 
 that  point  this  tree  will  have  reached  a 
 great  height  being  three  or  four  foot 
 taller  here  and  then  everything  else 
 would  have  caught  up  to  it  so  um  so 
 we'll  need  some  under  canopy  impact  by 
 that 
 point  so  oh  so  those  croin  they'll 
 that's  what's  great  about  Florida  petas 
 they  can  grow  up  to  10  foot  if  you  want 
 them  they  do  grow  very  slowly  though  so 
 that's  what's  great  about  maintenance 
 wise  I  trim  mine  twice  a  year  I  would 
 let  them  get  stay  around  4  foot  to  me 
 that's  a  gorgeous  size  and  um  and  you 
 can  cut  them  so  trim  from  the  top  so 
 trim  from  the  top  only  from  the  top 
 that's  such  a  good  question  Cynthia  you 
 want  to  do  this  you  want  to  trim  the 
 whole  stock  okay  because  I  have  seen 
 people  come  through  and  just  trim  the 
 whole  top  section  off  like  you  do  here 
 and  every  little  cut  on  those  leaves  it 
 leaves  that  brown  mark  and  it  leaves  it 
 it's  just  calling  the  bugs  in  for  an 
 infestation  so  you  don't  want  to  trim 
 the  leaves  you  want  to  trim  the  stock 
 and  right  now  they're  really  pretty  and 
 uniformed  but  when  they  get  bigger 
 you'll  have  a  stock  taller  and  so  you 
 can  really  easily  select  which  one  you 
 don't  want  to  have  in  the  garden  very 
 similar  to  the  um  blue  my  Minds  you  just 
 you  I  like  to  let  them  connect  but  you 
 can  let  them  be  individual  it's  a 
 preference  on  on  what  you'd  like  to  see 
 out  here  if  you  want  them  individual 
 you're  going  to  do  just  like  you  see 
 here  they're  going  to  get  chunkier  like 
 this  all  you  got  to  do  is  just  trim  them 
 in  a  circle  like  that  that  depends  if 
 you  want  that  maintenance  that's  about 
 an  every  60-day  thing  doing  that  but  if 
 you  want  these  to  connect  and  become 
 kind  of  a  small  little  highlight  of  a 
 hedge  like  a  curve  then  let  them  fully 
 connect  and  just  T  touch  up  the  tops  of 
 them  and  so  you'll  see  that  top  kind  of 
 you  know  just  kind  of  like  you  see  here 
 while  ke  did  did  here  just  take  off 
 those  tops  and  they'll  start  to  widen 
 out  and  connect  to  each  other  so  first 
 The  Roots  connect  and  then  you'll  see 
 the  stems  start  to  connect  you're  kind 
 of  taking  away  anything  that's  outside 
 the  line  so  if  you  want  to  kind  of  let 
 them  grow  together  it's  okay  if  a  stem 
 goes  this  way  but  not  this  way  so  and 
 that's  again  a  quarter  thing  you  know 
 every  quarter  you  kind  of  want  to  come 
 out  here  and  do  this  you  really  if  you 
 if  you  stick  to  every  quarter  trimming 
 or  um  even  you  know  during  the  summer 
 months  maybe  come  out  a  little  bit  a 
 week  or  two  earlier  in  the  summer  months 
 um  you're  you're  looking  at  maybe  maybe 
 15  20  minutes  in  this  Garden  so  don't 
 feel  don't  let  it  overwhelm  you  it's  not 
 it's  not  going  to  take  you  a  lot  of  time 
 it's  when  you  you  wait  that  year  and  a 
 half  and  you  come  out  and  it's  like 
 whoosh  everything's  got  to  go  back  to 
 brand  new  planting  again  and  that 
 happens  to  all  of  us  cuz  time  gets  away 
 from  us  this  guy  is  not  a  selfcleaning 
 tree  the  triangle  fan  palm  so  he  is 
 going  to  throw  out  new  limbs  in  this 
 Center  here  push  out  limbs  this  way  as 
 he  does  that  these  limbs  will  get  lower 
 and  lower  which  makes  that  perfect  fan 
 so  that's  just  a  really  cool  cool  look 
 to  their  species  I  love  that  fan  look 
 and  then  when  you're  just  when  these 
 lower  limbs  turn  brown  fully  Brown  you 
 can  clip  them  with  the  loppers  and  you 
 just  clip  them  right  close  to  the  trunk 
 as  close  as  possible  you're  going  to 
 want  to  fertilize  it  with  the  8212  and 
 then  that  chated  drench  that  I  think  I 
 I've  mentioned  to  you  before  it's  a 
 great  thing  to  add  to  your  palms  a 
 couple  times  a  year  it's  just  kind  of  in 
 between  its  micronutrients  on  top  of 
 that  fertilizer  yes  yeah  no  no  in 
 between  in  between  the  time  so  a  couple 
 times  a  year  so  every  6  months  if  you 
 want  to  go  in  then  just  kind  of  hit  that 
 with  that  it's  just  such  a  it's  just 
 such  a  great  vitamin  shot  you  know  so  if 
 you  if  you  have  time  and  you're  you're 
 able  to  do  that  to  your  palm  trees  these 
 guys  are  probably  going  to  give  you  the 
 most  trouble  cuz  they  can  Harpoon  you 
 the  best  thing  to  do  is  you  can  see 
 where  the  guys  trim  them  all  the  way 
 down  to  that  to  the  the  the  shaft  itself 
 so  just  trim  as  tight  as  you  can  to  the 
 base  and  you  know  it  keeps  it  a  nice 
 clean  trunk  line  this  guy  grows  about  a 
 foot  a  year  so  it's  slow  slow  grower 
 these  are  curly  dwarf  Jaba  white  copper 
 leaves  they  curl  they  mount  they  they 
 really  connect  together  it's  going  to  be 
 solid  back  here  and  this  can  get  up  to 
 5T  tall  and  you  can  let  this  get  into 
 that  5ft  range  I  think  that  bright 
 coloring  from  the  street  I  think  that's 
 going  to  be  gorgeous  so  let  them  fill 
 out  connect  together  and  become  your  big 
 backdrop  as  they  grow  how  should  I  trim 
 them  so  you  got  to  love  copper  leaves 
 you  can  do  anything  you  want  to  them 
 even  if  you  trim  them  to  the  ground  they 
 would  flush  back  out  with  new  growth  so 
 the  way  you  want  to  trim  those  is 
 whatever  you  don't  want  at  the  top  so 
 pick  a  pick  a  height  which  is  probably 
 going  to  be  your  tallest  your  tallest 
 one  that's  here  and  kind  of  want  to  go 
 make  sure  that  they're  all  that  same 
 height  so  when  you  Lop  these  you  just 
 want  to  Lop  the  stem  the  whole  stem  not 
 not  the  little  section  here  but  the 
 whole  stem  here  so  that  way  um  that  way 
 you  don't  have  any  cut  leaves  but  it's 
 so  easy  as  far  as  kind  of  figuring  out 
 you  really  can't  do  harm  and  all  these 
 plants  are  are  such  Tropicals  the  ones 
 that  you  kind  of  don't  you  want  to  make 
 sure  to  cut  properly  are  the  croin 
 because  you  don't  want  to  take  those 
 tops  of  them  I  see  croin  being  cut  or 
 even  if  you  have  some  guys  do  it  for  you 
 and  sometimes  they'll  do  that  hedge 
 trimming  no  hedge  trimming  on  the  croin 
 because  it  cuts  the  leaves  and  then  it 
 just  deforms  the  plant  any 
 questions  I  love  it  okay  that's  a  good 
 thing  so  that  pretty  much  does  it  um  for 
 for  this  project  this  is  a  um  kind  of  a 
 clean  sweep  you  know  kind  of  you  know 
 just  a  fresh  start  for  Cynthia  and 
 getting  this  this  Garden  kind  of  ready 
 really  really  something  that  she  can 
 tackle  so  um  so  I  hope  you  guys  enjoyed 
 it  if  you  have  any  questions  please 
 leave  them  in  the  comments  just  like 
 normal  like  And  subscribe  R  price  says 
 Bell  like  And  subscribe  hit  the  bell  and 
 we've  been  talking  we've  been  just 
 tossing  this  around  so  you  guys  let  me 
 know  if  this  might  be  something  that 
 you're  thinking  of  our  book  comes  out  um 
 in  a  couple  months  we've  been  working 
 super  hard  on  it  I  think  you  guys  if  you 
 love  some  of  the  plants  and  trees  that  I 
 talk  about  out  in  the  garden  you're 
 going  to  love  the  pictures  and  the 
 details  and  just  everything  that  we  put 
 together  in  this  book  so  we've  been 
 thinking  about  doing  kind  of  like  a  meet 
 and  greet  kind  of  a  meet  and  greet  where 
 it  all  started  um  in  my  on  my  back  porch 
 in  the  backyard  touring  the  backyard 
 gardens  and  just  um  kind  of  sharing  it 
 with  um  with  our  community  so  I  was 
 thinking  about  um  doing  kind  of  like  a 
 cocktail  couple  hours  you  know  kind  of 
 thing  you  know  having  some  cocktails 
 having  some  appetizers  and  just  kind  of 
 meeting  some  of  you  guys  um  some  of  my 
 true  guarden  ERS  that  are  out  there  and 
 are  nearby  and  would  love  to  stop  by  and 
 um  you  know  walk  through  the  garden  and 
 talk  and  and  um  discuss  the  book  we'll 
 have  everything  out  there  uh  for  you 
 guys  to  look  through  you'll  get  a  chance 
 to  kind  of  see  everything  instead  of 
 ordering  it  online  and  hopefully  um 
 that'll  be  a  kind  of  a  fun  thing  to  do 
 so  let  us  know  if  that's  something  that 
 you  guys  think  that  you  would  enjoy  by 
 putting  it  in  the  comments  um  just 
 before  we  kind  of  tackle  that  and  take 
 on  that  kind  of  expense  if  you  guys  like 
 this  kind  of  content  and  enjoy  watching 
 these  videos  of  different  plants  and 
 trees  and  learning  about  plants  and 
 trees  check  out  my  latest  video  I'll  get 
 Bryce  to  put  it  up  here  somewhere  and 
 it's  going  to  be  about  three  of  my 
 favorite  plants  in  the  garden  and  these 
 are  three  of  my  most 
 unlikely  um  plants  that  I  ended  up 
 falling  in  love  with  in  the  garden  so  I 
 hope  that  that's  something  that  you  guys 
 might  um  find  enjoyable  and  learning 
 about  and  um  I  thought  it  was  a  great 
 video  all  right  you  guys  I  um  will  see 
 you  in  the  very  next  video  it  was  my 
 pleasure  uh  hosting  today  and  I'll  see 
 you  next  week

---

 well  hello  gardeners  hello  out  there  we 
 are  going  to  do  a  video  on  privacy  um 
 what  palm  trees  what  plants  really  make 
 it  all  happen  when  you  have  a  tight 
 space  to  work  in  this  house  is  in  Bureau 
 Beach  Florida  in  Arabella  community  and 
 it  is  jam-packed  tight  between  the  homes 
 beautiful  beautiful  homes  but  not  much 
 space  to  work  within  the  yards  we  had  to 
 stay  pretty  close  to  the  prop  or  on  well 
 on  the  inside  of  the  property  line  for 
 drainage  so  these  are  some  trees  and 
 plants  that  can  really  work  if  you  two 
 have  a  very  similar  situation  like  my 
 clients  have  here  which  is  a  beautiful 
 outdoor  lni  it's  absolutely  stunning 
 gorgeous  out  here  with  their  nice  big 
 pool  area  however  it  is  very  open  to 
 Neighbors  on  both  sides  this  is  a  year 
 after  planting  we  brought  them  in  pretty 
 big  because  we  needed  instant  height  but 
 I  think  this  layering  has  done  such  a 
 nice  job  of  creating  coverage  we  just 
 finished  trimming  everything  for  my 
 clients  um  like  I  don't  know  3  days  ago 
 so  everything's  got  a  fresh  trim  it's  a 
 little  bit  thin  but  when  these  Blaze 
 copper  leaf  down  below  are  full  and 
 thick  they're  absolutely  like  a  wall 
 underneath  those  pygmies  and  I  know  I've 
 told  you  guys  this  in  the  past  where  if 
 you  just  take  whatever  tree  that  you've 
 got  and  cover  up  the  stocks  with  some  of 
 your  lower  material  that  you  can  keep 
 around  3  or  4  foot  then  you  have  a 
 pretty  much  a  wall  so  when  they're  full 
 and  gorgeous  and  you  get  this  great 
 canopy  of  this  this  beautiful  layering 
 coverage  is  absolutely  stunning  I  know 
 so  many  of  us  have  a  very  similar 
 situation  we've  got  these  beautiful 
 beautiful  new  homes  and  tight 
 communities  and  um  you're  dealing  with 
 the  same  kind  of  thing  and  you  just  kind 
 of  want  a  privacy  um  a  bit  of  privacy 
 around  your  pool  area  and  so  many  times 
 the  very  first  thing  that  I  get  from 
 from  clients  who  call  me  they're  like  I 
 want  privacy  but  I  don't  want  a  hedge  I 
 don't  want  just  straight  kusia  I  still 
 want  it  tropical  so  I  hope  this  video 
 will  help  you  guys  kind  of  you  know  let 
 you  know  that  even  in  tight  spaces  you 
 really  can  go  with  some  really  cool 
 vertical  trees  that  are  going  to  just 
 make  it  happen  for  you  and  so  I'm  going 
 to  share  with  you  the  combinations  I 
 went  with  this  is  a  fairly  small  bed 
 this  is  definitely  a  doable  thing  for 
 for  so  many  of  us  so  I  think  that  um  I 
 you  know  I  I  think  that  it  would  it's 
 going  to  be  a  rockar  for  all  of  you  guys 
 now  you'll  notice  that  when  I  have  a 
 very  skinny  area  to  work  with  just  like 
 we  have  here  I  have  a  tendency  to  do 
 stone  right  along  the  foundation  of  the 
 pool  screen  I  just  think  the  way  the  way 
 it  looks  it's  nice  and  C  clean  from  the 
 inside  it  brightens  it  up  from  the 
 inside  so  it  almost  feels  like  an 
 extension  of  the  P  deck  um  and  it  just  I 
 I  don't  know  it  just  keeps  everything 
 nice  and  clean  it  also  makes  it  easy 
 access  for  you  guys  to  or  for  my  clients 
 to  walk  through  the  inside  of  the  garden 
 to  maintain  and  trim  because  it's  pretty 
 easy  to  get  to  the  outside  but  the 
 insides  can  always  be  challenging  so  in 
 this  particular  home  we  took  this  rock 
 border  and  we  moved  it  all  the  way 
 around  the  property  so  not  only  is  it  in 
 the  sidey  yard  but  it  wraps  the  entire 
 length  including  the  front  front  yard 
 buffer  so  it  just  makes  it  easy  access 
 to  maintain  from  the  inside  and  the 
 outside  which  I  know  I  know  my  clients 
 appreciate  it's  just  going  to  be  it's 
 going  to  be  a  a  way  that  I'm  going  to  do 
 Gardens  in  the  future  for  sure  the 
 combinations  that  I  used  here  is  just  my 
 typical  layering  so  yes  you  guys  know  I 
 love  pigate  Palms  I  love  them  for  what 
 they  offer  you  can  put  them  in  fairly 
 small  spaces  they're  going  to  max  out  at 
 12  sometimes  13t  just  depending  on  the 
 area  and  the  moisture  in  the  soil  but 
 this  guy  when  he  reach  is  that  full 
 grown  height  which  is  just  a  few  feet 
 from  here  he's  really  going  to  offer 
 that  great  wall  like  can  you  see  me 
 Bryce  maybe  just  a  little  he's  going  to 
 really  offer  that  fantastic  wall  of 
 coverage  which  I  absolutely  love  and  for 
 the  most  part  most  of  us  don't  love  this 
 um  their  trunk  line  you  know  they  don't 
 have  anything  super  showy  about  the 
 trunk  so  that's  why  I  take  the 
 opportunity  to  bring  in  some  beauty  just 
 down  below  something  that  can  be 
 maintained  around  4  foot  so  this  trunk 
 is  going  to  continue  to  grow  up  to  about 
 5T  tall  so  these  Blaze  copper  leaf  are 
 going  to  do  a  fabulous  job  of  becoming  a 
 perfect  skirt  planting  to  offer  some 
 denseness  once  they  flush  out  after  all 
 this  trimming  that  just  happened  as  we 
 move  around  to  the  back  you'll  kind  of 
 see  in  that  Center  area  we've  got  some 
 Jaba  white  copper  leaes  and  again  you 
 guys  um  just  be  aware  this  has  been  very 
 very  recently  trimmed  so  you're  not 
 getting  the  full  beauty  of  what  this  guy 
 looked  like  but  he  was  just  gorgeous  and 
 full  and  offered  a  bit  of  brightness  in 
 that  dark  middle  spot  of  coverage  which 
 I  just  think  is  so  cool  what  what  they 
 offer  in  a  dark  spot  they  give  you  that 
 that  bright 
 coloring  and  then  to  me  the  Pista 
 resistance  in  the  Landscaping  I  love  the 
 Florida  thatch  Palm  I  just  think  it's 
 absolutely  stunning  I  think  that  they're 
 just  full  and  dense  you  can  trim  off 
 whatever  you  don't  need  they're  very 
 very  cool  upright  fronds  with  this 
 little  crinkle  to  the  edge  they  don't 
 get  used  enough  um  but  what  I  love  about 
 them  is  they  grow  super  super  slow  and 
 um  they  really  offer  a  long-term  benefit 
 of  coverage  so  if  I  have  a  spot  and  it 
 was  a  bit  tricky  here  I  I  mentioned  to 
 Justin  um  Justin's  my  client  who  was 
 also  a  Avid  Gardener  and  I  was  like  you 
 know  you're  going  to  have  to  have  you're 
 going  to  have  to  keep  this  guy  off  the 
 screen  a  little  bit  he's  not  like  the 
 pygmies  he's  not  like  the  the  um  fox 
 tail  palms  he's  going  to  grow  a  little 
 bit  more  with  some  width  but  he's  like 
 hey  I  don't  mind  it's  beautiful  I  love 
 the  look  of  it  I  love  seeing  those  big 
 fronds  in  the  middle  of  all  these  dainty 
 fronds  and  he's  right  on  he's  right  on 
 point  he's  done  a  beautiful  job  of 
 keeping  them  just  kind  of  nice  and 
 Compact  and  probably  about  as  crazy  as 
 he  wants  them  to  get  but  this  one 
 happens  to  be  a  quad  which  is  four  four 
 full  trunks  so  that  it  was  just  as  full 
 as  I  could  possibly  get  it  they  come  in 
 singles  triples  mostly  singles  is  their 
 average  but  um  finding  a  quad  and  we 
 found  a  quad  for  the  opposite  side  oh  my 
 God  you  guys  having  finding  two  matching 
 was  not  not  easy  but  it  was  definitely 
 it  was  definitely  worth  it  because  it 
 really  really  showed  the  space  off  and 
 then  we  kind  of  you  know  like  I  like  to 
 say  we  kind  of  did  a  rinse  and  repeat  we 
 have  another  fox  tail  Palm  that  that  is 
 a  column  like  the  opposite  fox  tail  palm 
 and  then  we  have  a  um  pygm  date  palm 
 triple  with  some  Blaze  copper  leaf 
 underneath  of  them  and  then  as  you  get 
 over  into  this  space  here  oh  you  can  see 
 these  blades  are  really  popping  out  I 
 just  love  what  that  winter  color  does  to 
 them  they're  just  so  stunning  it  really 
 brings  out  those  pinks  so  this  is  a  blue 
 Latin  Palm  some  people  might  confuse  it 
 with  a  bismar  palm  and  those  of  you  guys 
 who  are  thinking  it's  a  bismar  palm  are 
 like  why  did  you  place  that  here  this  is 
 way  too  big  this  tree  is  going  to  be 
 huge  it  is  not  a  bismar  palm  it  is  a 
 blue  Latin  Palm  which  is  fabulous  as  it 
 grows  up  has  a  thinner  smaller  trunk 
 even  these  fronds  I  mean  they  just  don't 
 get  anywhere  near  the  size  of  what  a 
 bismar  does  so  it's  going  to  be  a  very 
 very  cool  tree  I  love  the  um  red  tinged 
 Edge  that  it  carries  isn't  that 
 gorgeous  I  just  think  it's  such  a 
 dynamic  tree  and  we  have  one  on  the 
 opposite 
 side  so  right  now  we're  going  to  go  over 
 I'm  going  to  go  up  to  the  Rock  Bryce 
 because  that's  one  thing  with  this 
 community  it's  a  new  community  and  the 
 drainage  is  just  not  it's  just  not  great 
 here  you  know  it's  it's  anytime  you  have 
 a  lot  of  houses  in  in  a  tight  area 
 drainage  is  always  a  problem  so  walking 
 in  this  you  guys  can't  hear  the 
 squishing  but  I  can  feel  it  so  we're 
 we're  going  to  walk  up 
 here  now  this  was  an  addition  as  I 
 mentioned  my  client  is  an  avid  Gardener 
 he  is  fabulous  hello  Justin  and  Amy  if 
 you  guys  are  watching  um  but  he  uh  put 
 in  some  citrus  trees  and  some  um  mango 
 and  aloe  and  really  just  playing  with 
 his  garden  with  the  the  leftover  space 
 that  we  were  given  so  or  he  was  given  so 
 this  is  a  nice 
 bed  that  they're  going  to  maintain  these 
 trees  at  a  nice  compact  size 
 and  you  know  that's  this  is  not  for  this 
 is  not  for  the  non-g  gardener  you  know 
 these  trees  that  are  here  because  these 
 these  guys  are  going  to  take  some  some 
 cutting  and  some  and  some  real  trimming 
 because  they're  probably  about  10  to  12 
 foot  off  of  the  back  of  the  the  screen 
 room  so  it's  going  to  take  a  little  bit 
 of  work  to  kind  of  keep  them  Compact  and 
 small  but  I  have  full  faith  in  Justin  so 
 here  we  have  another  blue  Latin  you  may 
 have  noticed  from  the  other  one  but 
 these  see  how  they  have  a  little  bit  of 
 a  tilt  out  we  really  want  to  promote  so 
 even  when  they  were  younger  when  when 
 they  were  planted  they're  kind  of  curved 
 out  we  really  want  them  to  promote  to 
 have  a  little  bit  of  a  a  curved  trunk  a 
 little  bit  further  from  the  house 
 because  again  we  didn't  have  a  lot  of 
 space  to  work  with  so  we  went  out  as  far 
 as  we  could  this  is  going  to  curve  out 
 and  really  widen  out  notice  that  this 
 one  has  a  little  bit  more  room  to  grow 
 and  it's  opened  up  just  a  tad  bit  more 
 than  the  other  one  so  anytime  you  don't 
 have  room  pop  that  tree  that  way  because 
 it'll  continue  to  grow  up  as  it  curves 
 up  and  search  for  the  Sun  so  let  it  do 
 its  thing  and  just  you  know  kind  of  get 
 it  away  from  your  screen  so  we're  going 
 to  continue  walking  all  along  this 
 pathway  so  our  feet  are  nice  and  dry  um 
 and  then  we're  going  to  share  with  you 
 guys  the  front  yard  I  think  if  you  like 
 the  backyard  you're  going  to  love  the 
 front  yard  cuz  the  this  other  bed  is 
 pretty  much  an  exact  replica  of  the 
 opposite  bed  but  I  really  do  think  that 
 it  offered  them  exactly  what  they  were 
 looking  for  with  coverage  so  let's  pop 
 into  the  front 
 yard  so  we  are  going  to  continue  the 
 tour  in  the  front  yard  and  from  what  you 
 guys  can  see  here  this  is  your  typical 
 Suburban  front  yard  this  is  um  this  is 
 kind  of  a  a  lot  of  the  projects  that  we 
 do  now  when  we  got  here  this  was  a  a 
 typical  Builder's  package  and  we  kept  a 
 few  small  things  but  overall  we  kind  of 
 eliminated  a  lot  of  what  was  here  and 
 started  fresh  with  some  new  some  new 
 tropical  feels  so  you  can  tell  for  my 
 client  color  of  their  home  they  really 
 wanted  to  bring  in  the  tropics  they 
 really  wanted  more  of  a  that  softer  look 
 a  lot  less  of  um  Vero  Beach  maybe  more 
 jungle  and  spired  wild  kind  of  Florida 
 so  we  have  a  little  bit  of  that  going  on 
 which  I  absolutely  love  so  let's  jump  in 
 all  right  so  surprise  surprise  we  have  a 
 lot  of  what  we  have  in  the  backyard  it's 
 done  so  well  here  so  that's  exactly  what 
 we  continued  on  we  have  a  beautiful  fox 
 tail  Palm  this  guy's  absolutely  gorgeous 
 he's  weathered  the  storms  that  we've  had 
 recently  and  just  bounced  back  and  I'm 
 going  to  keep  a  disclaimer  on  um  some  of 
 the  Landscapes  that  we  were  doing 
 recently  all  of  those  just  re  I  mean 
 literally  Lally  it  was  been  maybe  seven 
 or  eight  weeks  ago  we  had  a  row  of 
 storms  that  just  came  through  and  just 
 did  some  did  some  frawn  damage  to  a  few 
 things  but  goodness  it's  just  done  so 
 well  so  Bryce  if  you  back  up  a  little 
 bit  you'll  kind  of  get  to  see  the  how 
 this  flanks  the  driveway  I  love  these 
 two  Agave  I  love  the  fact  that  we've  got 
 two  flanking  Agave  on  either  side  of  the 
 driveway  I  think  it  adds  some  punch  it 
 adds  some  brightness  and  um  it  just  I 
 don't  know  I  think  that  just  the  way 
 that  they're  leaning  just  makes  them 
 makes  it  feels  so  welcoming  and  so 
 interesting  over  here  what  a  great 
 structure  they  give  in  the  garden  then 
 we've  got  some  weight  of  a  pygme  eight 
 Palm  on  that  side  there  mixed  with  some 
 curly  Java  whites  just  to  kind  of  give 
 us  a  cluster  the  Java  whites  that  I  used 
 here  are  the  dwarf  variety  the  ones  that 
 stay  a  little  bit  smaller  more  compact 
 not  kind  of  as  thick  and  wild  as  the 
 ones  in  the  back  that  um  we  have  room 
 for  them  to  grow  so  um  a  nice  clean  easy 
 bed  over  there  and  the  same  here  so 
 we've  got  a  Agave  kind  of  angled  out 
 towards  the  street 
 and  then  we've  used  some  Florida  boxwood 
 at  the  bottom  just  to  kind  of  give  us  a 
 real  tiered  really  tailored  kind  of 
 paired  back  look  and  that  way  it  lets 
 the  Agave  really 
 shine  these  blades  copper  leaf  as  a 
 backdrop  here  are  going  to  do  fantastic 
 as  real  I  mean  we  just  cut  them  back  um 
 but  they  are  stunners  when  they're  nice 
 and  big  so  a  couple  foot  taller  and 
 they're  just  absolutely  the  perfect 
 backdrop  plant  they're  really  coming 
 into  their  color  right  now  and  I  just 
 absolutely  love  them  this  time  of  the 
 year  you  guys  might  know  Noti  said  I 
 don't  know  if  it's  coming  across  on 
 camera  not  or  not  but  um  this  area  is 
 kind  of  a  little  bit  raised  and  um  my 
 client  didn't  mind  it  because  we  kind  of 
 played  it  off  with  the  agave  and  the  way 
 we  rounded  out  this  bed  but  we  did  have 
 to  raise  it  because  the  soil  level  here 
 the  water  line  is  just  it's  it's  high 
 here  so  when  we  would  dig  for  these 
 trees  we  were  hitting  water  so  we  wanted 
 to  make  sure  that  we  we  brought  in  tons 
 of  back  fill  oversized  and  when  we  dug 
 these  holes  broke  through  some  of  that 
 hard  pan  dirt  and  then  put  in  new  soil 
 in  here  and  then  still  did  the  extra 
 precaution  of  raising  the  tree  up  a 
 little  bit  and  I  think  yeah  I  think  it 
 worked  did  all  right  so  she's  a  beauty 
 so  we  and  and  we  commonly  run  across 
 those  things  as  part  of  the  landscaping 
 and  that's  part  of  what  we  do  when  we're 
 on  site  I  mean  we  really  want  to  make 
 sure  that  we're  not  thinking  of  just  the 
 final  outcome  the  day  of  completion  the 
 day  that  we're  um  picking  up  our  final 
 payment  now  we're  thinking  about  a  year 
 two  years  five  years  down  the  road  we 
 want  this  to  be  a  successful  project  and 
 obviously  a  year  later  this  is  is 
 absolutely  stunning  and  it's  been  very 
 very  successful  and  this  was  a  tough  one 
 um  this  area  I  want  to  share  with  I  want 
 to  get  in  the  plants  here  in  just  a 
 moment  but  I  love  this  look  right  by  the 
 front  door  and  I  wanted  Bryce  to  to  show 
 you  guys  but  I  know  we  talked  about  the 
 Rock  and  how  it  goes  all  the  way  around 
 the  house  if  you  guys  are  just  starting 
 out  with  your  landscape  bed  if  this  is 
 something  that  you're  thinking  about 
 doing  in  the  future  consider  doing  this 
 because  I  just  think  it's  so 
 fantastic  it  looks  great  great  from  when 
 you  come  up  the  walk  you  get  to  see  the 
 back  side  of  the  planting  bed  but  being 
 able  to  walk  just  through  here  to 
 fertilize  to  trim  to  you  know  put  your 
 shutters  up  whatever  it  is  put  a  nice 
 bit  a  bedding  of  stone  with  um  some 
 edging  along  there  to  kind  of  keep 
 everything  nice  and  tidy  and  separated 
 not  only  does  it  keep  moisture  off  the 
 house  but  you  know  it  helps  protect  it 
 against  bugs  being  right  up  along  the 
 house  and  along  the  windows  it's  just  a 
 a  little  added  extra  bonus  all  the  way 
 around  and  we  did  that  and  I  think  I 
 mentioned  it  earlier  in  the  video  we  did 
 that  mainly  because  there's  just  so  much 
 water  around  here  so  um  but  if  you  guys 
 even  if  you  don't  have  a  water  problem 
 just  being  able  to  walk  through  here  to 
 put  those  shutters  on  or  get  down  here 
 and  throw  fertilizer  down  here  so  so 
 very  easy  and  then  it  keeps  my  feet  dry 
 which  I  appreciate  it  also  helps  you  not 
 track  a  bunch  of  stuff  into  the  house  if 
 you're  coming  in  and  out  because  you 
 know  my  feet  are  clean  I  don't  have  any 
 dirt  on  them  it's  just  an  ideal  spot  I 
 mean  I  might  hang  out  here  so  it's 
 pretty  neat  um  by  the  way  this  tree 
 right  here  is  a  European  fan  pal  um  it 
 is  a  cool  double  um  I  just  love  how  it 
 has  two  really  cool  um  interesting 
 trunks  you  know  with  the  staggered  look 
 I  originally  thought  I  was  going  to  put 
 um  this  tree  when  I  first  saw  it  I 
 tagged  it  because  I  fell  in  love  with  it 
 but  I  I  was  going  to  put  it  by  a  pool 
 area  because  I  thought  hey  it's  so 
 tropical  I  love  that  cool  v-shaped  at  a 
 staggered  height  just  super  super  cool 
 and  then  when  I  saw  this  flat  wall  right 
 here  on  this  corner  I'm  like  I  know 
 where  you're  going  you're  going  to 
 Justin's  house  and  um  I'm  so  glad  I  did 
 because  he  loves  it  he  takes  good  care 
 of  it  and  it  totally  belongs  here  these 
 guys  grow  so  very  slow  that  um  it's  the 
 perfect  thing  to  not  outgrow  a  landscape 
 so  this  is  going  to  be  a  staple  in  this 
 Garden  for  years  and  years  and  years  and 
 years  um  so  it's  and  when  it  gets  older 
 obviously  it's  going  to  be  even  more 
 beautiful  and  and  have  some  height  to  it 
 but  it's  going  to  be  a  gorgeous  gorgeous 
 look  so  and  then  we  did  that  combination 
 of  plants  that  I  like  to  do  where  we're 
 we  have  what  we  have  up  there  we're 
 repeating  it  here  so  that  way  there  is  a 
 theme  to  this  Garden  I  have  a  clustering 
 and  look  what  we're  looking  at  five 
 plants  here  we've  got  a  clustering  of 
 Blaze  copper  leaf  now  again  they've  been 
 recently  trimmed  but  you  can  see  these 
 from  the  road  just  above  the  dwarf  uh 
 Java  whites  and  they're  just  kind  of  a 
 nice  backdrop  like  this  they're  perfect 
 against  the  Green  if  you  got  light 
 colors  on  your  house  put  this  against 
 your  house  it's  just  such  a  stunner  from 
 the  roadside  I  just  love  the  way  that 
 looks  so  um  gosh  I've  never  done  a  tour 
 from  the  back  side  of  the  bed  before  so 
 we'll  have  to  see  how  that  comes 
 out  this  is  a  of  course  a  pymmy  date 
 palm  you  guys  and  you  know  I  know  it's  a 
 LoveHate  relationship  with  pymmy  dates 
 because  they  do  have  those  harpoons  of 
 thorns  right  there  but  oh  my  gosh  it's 
 just  this  Lacy  look  and  the  long-term 
 benefits  of  having  a  tree  that  stays  put 
 for  a  very  long  period  of  time  because 
 of  its  slow  growth  rate  and  the  fact 
 that  it  becomes  such  a  be  broad 
 beautiful  canopy  for  cover  that  stays  um 
 I  think  that  they're  just  worth  worth 
 their  worth  their  salt  in  the  garden  the 
 biggest  thing  to  do  is  make  sure  you 
 find  a  healthy  one  there's  a  lot  of 
 people  that  sell  these  and  there's 
 there's  some  a  grades  all  the  way  to  d-g 
 grades  and  you  want  to  make  sure  you  get 
 an  A  grade  tree  um  that  that  makes  it  a 
 tough  thick  dense  tree  this  tree  is 
 quite  tall  but  you  can  see  it  has  nice 
 chunky  trunks  so  do  the  ones  in  the  back 
 and  it  makes  all  the  difference  in  in 
 the  world  so  find  yourself  when  you're 
 tagging  or  pulling  material  or  ask  your 
 landscape  where  you  can  see  a  picture  of 
 it  um  cuz  you  want  you  want  a  nice  dense 
 tree  and  then  we  have  a  King  Alexander 
 and  probably  should  go  to  the  front  for 
 this  one  you  can  see  you  guys  we  kind  of 
 came  to  the  edge  of  this  bed  here  where 
 we  put  the  the  final  tree  I  mean  we  came 
 to  the  edge  of  the  property  line  I  mean 
 look  how  close  we  are  his  property  line 
 is  right  here  and  we're  pretty  much  like 
 straddling  that  edge  line  here  so  my 
 goal  always  when  I'm  doing  these 
 Landscaping  is  really  trying  to  push  the 
 big  material  out  as  far  as  we  can  and 
 use  more  of  the  cool  interesting 
 material  like  the  European  fan  palms  or 
 things  that  are  going  to  get  stay  short 
 and  and  stocky  or  shorten  like  the  agave 
 with  with  structure  in  the  middle 
 because  that's  not  hiding  your  house  we 
 kind  of  want  columns  so  we  have  really 
 some  nice  nice  column  points  here  and 
 that  King  Alexander  does  just  that  um  I 
 love  this  double  now  this  double 
 unfortunately  got  pretty  beat  up  during 
 the  storm  it's  on  the  corner  so  it  got 
 hit  pretty  hard  but  you  can  see  that 
 it's  got  some  beautiful  new  fronds 
 coming  out  it's  going  to  do  fabulously 
 in  time  but  what  a  cool  trunk  line  this 
 this  is  I  know  a  lot  of  you  guys  um  uh 
 mistaken  this  tree  for  a  Christmas  palm 
 and  they  do  look  very  similar  um  their 
 trunks  are  fairly  similar  the  big  thing 
 is  is  the  Christmas  Palm  has  a  little 
 bit  of  a  denser  more  compact  canopy  um 
 like  the  fronds  come  up  and  then  only 
 the  edges  kind  of  curl  like  this  and 
 they  stay  more  compact  where  a  King 
 Alexander  kind  of  comes  way  out  almost 
 like  a  coconut  and  how  they  do  kind  of 
 comes  way  out  leaning  out  much  more  of  a 
 a  dynamic  or  dramatic  FR  and  so  um  and 
 then  also  this  will  get  27  foot  tall 
 where  a  Christmas  Palm  kind  of  matures 
 out  to  around  16  to  18  so  they  don't  get 
 as  as  large  as  these  guys  do  so  if 
 that's  going  to  fit  your  um  fit  your 
 scale  of  your  house  better  then  stick 
 with  the  Christmas  Palm  but  these  are 
 kind  of  just  a  little  bit  smaller  than 
 what  fox  tailes  offer  you  in  time  so 
 those  are  your  pros  and  your  cons  of  of 
 this  particular  Tres  so  and  then  of 
 course  you  guys  know  how  I  feel  about 
 these  Java  whites  I  feel  like  I  should 
 just  have  Java  whites  everywhere  stamped 
 everywhere  I  mean  and  you  can  see  why 
 look  at  this  glossy  Leaf  now  this  is  a 
 year  after  planting  just  look  how  just 
 gorgeous  and  beautiful  and  I  don't  know 
 they're  just  they're  like  the  perfect 
 little  bouquet  right  here  and  I  just 
 think  that  they're  so  Compact  and 
 gorgeous  and  when  you  pair  them  with 
 blaze  copper  leaf  what  a  gorgeous 
 collection  they  make  so  and  you  guys  can 
 see  there's  not  much  plant  material 
 within  this  grouping  you  know  we've  got 
 some  spotted  trees  in  here  we  have  some 
 intermediate  accents  to  give  us  some 
 levels  in  here  but  gosh  overall  we're 
 not  talking  about  70  or  80  plants  we're 
 talking  about  six  of  these  and  five  of 
 these  and  three  of  these  and  you  know 
 and  and  that's  what  a  front  yard 
 landscape  can  be  and  still  be  pretty 
 pretty  awesome  so  I  I  hope  this  these 
 combinations  that  that  you  see  on  these 
 videos  I  hope  this  is  something  that  you 
 can  take  away  and  if  you  like  this  look 
 this  something  you  can  recreate  for 
 yourself  because  when  I  think  about 
 great  combinations  I  think  about  how 
 these  Java  white  copper  leavs  will  never 
 overtake  the  look  of  a  pyate  palm 
 they're  never  going  to  get  into  that 
 range  they're  going  to  be  the  perfect 
 under  story  forever  now  when  um  and 
 these  Blaze  copper  Leafs  are  going  to  do 
 the  same  thing  as  a  backdrop  see  how  we 
 have  an  opening  to  The  Blaze  copper  leaf 
 allowing  them  to  get  some  more  height  to 
 them  um  to  to  just  kind  of  to  peek  over 
 top  of  these  Java  whites  to  really  kind 
 of  give  you  that  contrast  of  color  and 
 then  we've  got  here  the  European  fan 
 palm  which  we  know  is  not  going  to  grow 
 much  it's  going  to  really  really  be  a 
 staple  and  stay  small  or  stay  the  size 
 kind  of  you  plant  it  for  a  long  period 
 of  time  so  I  chose  something  like 
 foxtail  ferns  because  the  fox  tail  ferns 
 are  not  going  to  get  here  and  overtake 
 this  guy  the  fox  tail  ferns  are  going  to 
 just  kind  of  stay  short  and  chunky  and 
 Justin  likes  this  wild  kind  of  crazy 
 look  I  know  the  fox  tail  FS  that  you 
 guys  see  when  we  do  our  trimmings  we 
 kind  of  keep  them  more  upright  more  more 
 compact  but  I  love  it  because  it's  kind 
 of  a  nice  mix  and  match  of  this  this 
 European  fan  pal  kind  of  letting  them 
 get  a  little  a  little  wiry  and  a  little 
 fun  so  um  feel  like  they  have  a  little 
 party  down  there  but  yeah  so  that's  what 
 we  have  at  their  base  and  then  we  again 
 because  we  had  this  opening  we  started 
 again  with  the  blaze  copper  leaf  and 
 then  dropped  it  down  with  some  of  the 
 Ruby  Reds  and  some  bulbin  that  are  that 
 are  kind  of  growing  in  here  we  have  a 
 smaller  European  fan  palm  we  lost  one  of 
 the  trunks  unfortunately  um  this  is  a 
 double  now  but  it  was  a  triple  and  it's 
 like  the  perfect  little  just  kind  of 
 finishing  point  to  underneath  the 
 address  plate  so  it's  just  kind  of  a 
 nice  little  wild  look  so  we  are  now  back 
 where  we  started  um  so  you  guys  if  this 
 is  kind  of  a  look  that  you  like  you  have 
 a  very  similar  especially  that  backyard 
 section  and  you're  looking  to  create 
 privacy  then  check  out  this  um  this 
 video  that  we  did  a  few  weeks  ago  I'll 
 get  Bryce  to  post  it  somewhere  above  my 
 head  or  to  my  side  or  something  and  um 
 it'll  be  another  tour  that  we  did  of  a 
 beautiful  backyard  garden  that  was  also 
 very  very  narrow  we  were  able  to  really 
 jam-pack  a  lot  of  really  interesting 
 material  that's  going  to  just  flush  out 
 and  be  gorgeous  for  coverage  back  there 
 but  um  hey  don't  forget  comment  true 
 Garder  I  knew  he  was  getting  ready  to 
 remind  me  and  um  thank  you  Garder  so 
 much  it  was  my  pleasure  to  do  this  video 
 and  please  list  any  comments  that  you 
 have  down  below  see  you  soon

---

 well  hello  gardeners  welcome  back  so  we 
 are  in  virau  Beach  Florida  my  backyard 
 yet  again  and  I  want  to  share  with  you 
 guys  three 
 unsuspecting  suspects  no  I'm  not  sure  if 
 that  makes  sense  three  plants  that  I 
 have  put  into  my  garden  amongst  all  of 
 the  plants  that  you  guys  see  here  um 
 that  have  just  become  my  true  favorites 
 and  I  want  to  share  with  you  guys  why 
 and  that  way  if  you're  thinking  about 
 incorporating  some  fun  things  hopefully 
 this  will  help  so  I'm  going  to  get 
 started  with  sharing  my  very  first  one 
 so  this  plant  here  is  a  deim  bakia  also 
 nicknamed  Dum  Kane  this  is  the 
 camouflage  variety  I  absolutely  love  it 
 and  you  you  guys  can  probably  guess  why 
 I  mean  look  I've  got  such  dark  features 
 on  both  sides  and  I  love  the  way  that 
 these  guys  just  draw  your  eye  I  mean 
 instantly  even  from  sitting  up  on  the 
 deck  I  mean  looking  back  here  they 
 really  just  almost  add  like  a  little 
 punctuation  in  the  garden  and  I  love  how 
 they  do  that  now  growing  up  these  guys 
 were  a  staple  in  my  living  room  bedroom 
 I  mean  sometimes  I  would  even  see  them 
 in  the  bathroom  my  mom  put  them 
 everywhere  they're  the  perfect  house 
 plant  they're  tough  they  don't  get  pest 
 they're  just  I  mean  they're  just  an 
 overall  tough  tough  plant  to  have  within 
 the  inside  of  the  house  um  but  I  uh  last 
 year  put  them  into  the  garden  and  I'm  so 
 very  in  love  with  them  now  I  wasn't 
 quite  sure  how  the  camo  would  do  when  I 
 read  online  they  stay  kind  of  you  know 
 mediocre  in  size  so  I  thought  they  would 
 work  here  but  as  as  I'm  seeing  them  grow 
 I  realize  they're  going  to  be  phenomenal 
 in  the  rear  side  of  my  garden  so  I'm 
 going  to  find  some  holes  for  these  guys 
 to  go  into  because  they  do  this 
 fantastic  big  leaf  kind  of  look  and  I 
 think  they're  going  to  get  into  that 
 four  or  five  foot  range  and  they're 
 going  to  be  in  like  a  phenomenal 
 backdrop  so  that's  kind  of  my  goal  for 
 these  guys  as  they  mature  so  even  as  a 
 landscape  designer  and  learning  new 
 plants  and  trees  and  what  works  well  in 
 the  garden  and  what  doesn't  um  you  you 
 don't  always  know  exactly  where  to  place 
 them  so  I  thought  they  would  stay 
 smaller  longer  but  I'm  already  seeing 
 within  the  first  year  how  much  growth 
 we're  getting  so  I  realize  that  they're 
 going  to  go  um  towards  the  rear  side  of 
 the  garden  more  and  if  you  notice  that's 
 exactly  what  I've  done  with  a  few  of 
 them  back  here  so  I've  got  some  Def 
 bakia  and  some  AG 
 agonas  back  behind  this  tree  knowing 
 that  they're  going  to  cover  the  wall  in 
 no  time  so  I've  corrected  my  mistake  as 
 you  know  as  as  designers  do  and  I'm 
 going  to  see  how  they're  going  to  do  in 
 this  little  dark  corner  so  if  you  guys 
 have  a  dark  spot  in  your  garden 
 somewhere  that  um  you  know  you've  got 
 some  really  cool  croin  or  some  deep  tone 
 colors  um  because  that's  usually  what 
 works  in  those  dark  spots  pop  a  couple 
 of  these  guys  in  there  let  it  brighten 
 let  it  become  a  flashlight  in  the  garden 
 because  they're  I  don't  know  they're  one 
 of  my  favorites  when  I  look  back  here 
 I'm  like  hello  ladies  you  they're  just 
 so  so  cool  right  here  so  um  and  then  the 
 second  plant  of  choice  is  kind  of  a 
 similar  plant  but  let's  walk  over  here 
 this  is  my 
 agonas  and  um  they've  got  got  a  couple 
 different  nicknames  of  course  Chinese 
 Evergreen  is  a  common  nickname  and  these 
 are  the  Silver  Bay  or  Diamond  Frost  or 
 it  depends  on  where  you  get  them  what 
 what  the  name  of  them  are  but  I  just 
 absolutely  love  this  silvery  leaf  and 
 the  coloring  in  the  Middle  with  these 
 dark  greens  along  the  edges  it  just 
 looks  like  they're  painted  to  me  but  one 
 of  my  favorite  things  about  them  is 
 their  ability  to  just  do  well  in  every 
 environment  I  have  them  in  the  inside  of 
 my  house  in  a  very  dry  area  dark  area 
 and  they're  doing  very  well  and  then  I 
 have  them  in  this  spot  which  is  a  little 
 bit  more  moist  the  irrigation  hits  it 
 you  can  see  from  this  pole  here  this  is 
 where  the  irrigation  hits  it  so  this 
 area  stays  very  moist  and  in  China 
 they're  more  of  a  bedding  plant  so 
 they're  a  fantastic  clumping  plant  along 
 the  ground  so  like  a  perfect  ground 
 cover  like  like  Burl  marks  like  like 
 sesia  they're  they're  they're  a  lot  like 
 that  where  they'll  just  kind  of  take  a 
 spot  Clump  and  Clump  and  Clump  and  fill 
 out  so  you're  not  constantly  having  to 
 trim  this  plant  to  make  it  fill  out  it 
 doesn't  it  on  its  own  so  anything  that 
 saves  me  a  little  bit  of  time  and  is 
 pretty  to  as  a  bonus  it's  an  ideal  plant 
 to  work  with  so  um  I  will  tell  you  I 
 have  noticed  when  you're  getting  this 
 plant  it  depends  on  what  Nursery  you're 
 getting  them  in  be  very  aware  that  it 
 doesn't  have  what  they  call  a  cage  right 
 around  the  root  system  so  it's  a  little 
 plastic  cage  that  happens  right  around 
 the  root  system  because  a  lot  of  people 
 put  them  in  pots  in  their  house  so  that 
 cage  kind  of  keeps  their  Roots 
 restricted  and  kind  of  helps  them  become 
 more  more  of  a  a  small  overall  plant  so 
 if  you  have  that  cut  that  cage  off  of 
 the  root  ball  and  then  plant  them  in  the 
 in  the  ground  even  if  you  have  to  go  to 
 the  point  where  you  have  to  rinse  off 
 all  of  that  soil  and  then  plant  them  um 
 they'll  do  just  fine  as  a  transplant 
 like  that  um  they're  just  super  super 
 non  fussy  which  is  what  I  like  about 
 them  I've  had  them  where  they  get  too 
 much  water  they  get  too  little  water 
 they  they  love  it  both  so  I  I  I  love 
 what  they  do  and  then  there's  not  that 
 many  plants  that  can  grow  in  such  a  dark 
 spot  in  the  garden  and  still  still  keep 
 their  bright  coloring  I  mean  this  is 
 pretty  much  like  a  rainforest  right  here 
 we  have  multiple  tree  canopies 
 overshadowing  each  other  and  even  even 
 the  quarter  lines  you  know  fight  for  for 
 a  little  variation  in  color  and  these 
 guys  have  not  lost  it  a  bit  so  when  they 
 can  do  that  I  think  they're  fabulous  and 
 they're  very  very  easy  to  propagate  you 
 just  take  one  of  those  canes  off  and  you 
 move  it  into  another  part  of  the  garden 
 and  it  does  just  just  fantastic  so  um 
 these  have  been  in  the  ground  just  for 
 point  of  reference  for  about  two  years 
 so  I've  really  really  just  kind  of  you 
 know  I  want  to  see  how  they  did  with  a 
 little  bit  of  cold  temps  with  the  with 
 our  our  summer  rains  with  the  constant 
 humidity  in  the  air  and  they  have 
 handled  all  of  that  even  when  my  anti- 
 lose  right  next  to  them  got  um  bugs  and 
 infestations  where  I  had  to  treat  those 
 I  didn't  have  to  do  anything  to  these 
 guys  for  whatever  reason  they've  just 
 been  really  really  overall  tough  for 
 this  area  so  and  then  again  anytime  I 
 find  a  plant  that  I  love  I  move  it 
 around  my  garden  and  add  it  to  so  I  just 
 kind  of  take  my  knife  here  and  then  I 
 just  um  separate  the  cane  itself  from  it 
 a  nice  hard  cut  and  obviously  a  nice 
 clean  blade  um  this  one  I've  been 
 working  with  all  morning  so  um  but  and 
 then  you  just  want  to  separate  those 
 roots  and  then  you  can  pop  it  into 
 another  section  of  the  garden  and  then 
 it'll  Clump  out  for  you  so  even  if 
 you're  taking  one  cane  with  one  stock 
 it'll  produce  pups  and  really  become  a 
 thick  and  chunky  plant  this  is  three 
 plants  right  here  and  oh  gosh  over  the 
 two  years  they've  just  done  just  that 
 they  were  a  good  size  when  I  brought 
 them  in  they  were  s  gallon  size  but  they 
 have  clumped  out  and  um  multiplied  I 
 would  say  wide  Wise  by  additional  five 
 or  six  feet  which  is  just  just  what  I 
 was  looking  for  so  if  you're  looking  for 
 a  bedding  plant  that's  just  going  to 
 really  take  hold  and  fill  out  then 
 they're  they're  a  phenomenal  plant  to 
 choose  so  these  are  the  Silver  Bay  agas 
 agonas  and  then  um  my  other  favorite  is 
 the  agonas  um  maras  we'll  pop  over  there 
 and  I'll  I'll  let  you  guys  take  a  look 
 at  those  because  those  are  going  to  be 
 um  near  my  third  favorite  plant  so  but 
 as  far  as  the  agly  anemas  go  these  are 
 my  two  favorites  these  guys  and  the  and 
 the  mares  the  maras  um  they're  just  they 
 just  have  such  a  great  look  to  them  and 
 they  both  Clump  together  super  super 
 well  so  anyway  let's  pop  into  our  third 
 favorite  plant  of  the  garden  so  just 
 before  so  just  before  we  walk  to  the 
 side  Garden  you  guys  take  a  look  at 
 these  guys  filling  out  in  the  backside 
 here  I  just  I'm  I'm  in  awe  over  how  much 
 those  couple  plants  have  done  such  a 
 gorgeous  job  now  that  would  have  been 
 naturally  just  a  mulch  bed  nothing  to  it 
 nothing  interesting  it  covers  up  the 
 base  of  those  cat  PMS  as  those  cat  Palms 
 to  the  back  have  gotten  some  size  to 
 them  and  it's  the  perfect  bedding  color 
 back  there  I  just  I  love  how  they're 
 non-fussy  I  have  to  do  very  little  to 
 them  and  they  just  kind  of  fill  out  and 
 chunk  out  and  become  the  perfect  bedding 
 plan  so  you  guys  we  are  now  on  our  my 
 sidey  yard  and  um  these  plants  here  are 
 super  slow  growing  super  low  maintenance 
 so  if  you're  looking  for  a  plant  that's 
 just  going  to  stay  right  where  you  put 
 it  and  do  what  it's  told  then  the  um  the 
 heart-shaped  variegated  Ficus  is  an 
 ideal  plant  to  work  with  I  just  I  mean 
 the  charm  I  mean  if  you  don't  love  the 
 plant  just  because  it's  cool  I  mean  the 
 little  heart-shaped  leaves  I  mean  don't 
 they  just  get  you  in  love  with  these 
 plants  so  I  planted  a  handful  of  these 
 um  in  this  kind  of  curved  fashion  here 
 and  they  were  a  good  distance  apart  so 
 they  filled  out  quite  nicely  and  I  have 
 um  I  have  done  maybe  maybe  two  trimmings 
 with  them  which  is  I  think  I  mean  that's 
 all  you  can  really  ask  for  as  as  a 
 gardener  um  just  not  having  to 
 constantly  come  in  and  shape  and  trim 
 and  clean  plant  groupings  and  I  think 
 that  these  have  just  kind  of  made  that 
 made  this  side  section  exactly  what  I 
 needed  it  to  be  now  there  is  not  a  lot 
 of  water  in  this  area  I  have  a  drip  line 
 that  feeds  this  section  but  it's  kind  of 
 minimal  so  I  knew  I  need  to  go  with 
 something  like  a  ficus  that  didn't  need 
 tons  of  water  and  that  also  wouldn't 
 outgrow  this  area  I  wanted  this  as  as  my 
 walkway  to  be  my  backdrop  here  and  then 
 I  wanted  something  with  a  little  bit  of 
 a  highlight  because  this  isn't  a  very 
 lit  area  we're  in  the  middle  of  the  day 
 and  this  is  about  as  much  light  as  it 
 gets  so  a  bit  of  filtered  light  is  ideal 
 for  these  guys  um  now  I  say  that  but  I 
 have  a  nursery  who's  really  testing  them 
 in  the  full  sun  and  so  far  I  mean  the 
 readings  are  they  can  handle  more  and 
 more  Suns  so  I'm  going  to  take  some 
 propagated  cuting  here  and  and  pop  them 
 into  the  shade  and  start  kind  of  moving 
 them  around  the  garden  and  kind  of 
 seeing  how  they're  going  to  do  with  full 
 sun  because  because  when  you  find  a  low 
 maintenance  plant  that  offers  you  color 
 you  want  to  see  how  many  places  it  can 
 go  along  the  garden  and  you  know  we  we 
 just  want  to  use  it  everywhere  you  know 
 so  what  I  have  done  is  done  some  small 
 clippings  of  some  of  the  stems  and  um 
 I'm  just  hate  to  show  you  guys  this  but 
 because  I've  not  really  kind  of  taken 
 off  yet  it's  been  about  now  maybe  3  or  4 
 weeks  and  I  popped  them  into  these 
 little  Planters  because  this  is  a  very 
 protected  area  and  those  stems  have 
 lived  and  caught  so  I'm  seeing  growth  on 
 these  guys  which  I'm  super  excited  about 
 so  propagating  them  is  incredibly  easy  I 
 mean  just  look  at  how 
 much  I  was  able  to  put  into  a  little 
 spot  so  I'm  going  to  kind  of  be 
 monitoring  them  over  time  and  seeing  how 
 they're  going  to  do  just  to  offer  that 
 bit  of  variegation  because  it  is  so  hard 
 to  find  a  plant  grouping  in  a  dark  spot 
 that  really  offers  you  really  good  color 
 and  holds  that  color  without  too  much 
 light  and  I  think  that's  what  these  guys 
 do  I  just  I  I  think  they're  Charming  I 
 think  that  the  leaf  heart  shape  is  ideal 
 I  think  the  fact  that  they  stay  Compact 
 and  small  pretty  much  on  their  own  makes 
 them  a  winter  winter  chicken  dinner  in 
 my  book  these  guys  have  been  in  the 
 garden  for  almost  3  years  I  planted  them 
 at  three  gallon  size  I've  nipped  them 
 very  very  little  and  this  is  kind  of 
 what  I  have  to  work  with  here  the  Lea 
 stay  shiny  the  color  stays  good  um  and 
 we  have  really  filter  light  for  them  to 
 work  with  so  I  am  anxious  to  kind  of 
 report  back  with  you  guys  on  what 
 they're  going  to  do  when  they  um  when  we 
 have  more  sun  to  to  to  share  that  kind 
 of  look  I  think  that  the  um  variegated 
 heart  plants  the  de  okas  and  the  agonas 
 are  are  amongst  one  of  my  favorites  when 
 I  look  at  my  whole  garden  because  they 
 do  a  common  thing  they  stay  where  you 
 put  them  they  grow  super  slow  and  they 
 chunk  out  without  you  having  to  kind  of 
 keep  that  you  know  that  that  trimming  um 
 to  keep  them  full  and  thick  so  I  you 
 know  I  it's  it's  hard  when  you  need  a 
 bedding  plant  to  St  stand  out  we  have 
 all  these  great  gorgeous  species  and 
 Florida  that  get  big  and  tall  and  really 
 become  the  focal  points  but  sometimes 
 what  we're  missing  is  the  most  important 
 part  is  that  bedding  that  that  that 
 tropical  just  uh  thickness  at  the  bottom 
 that's  really  going  to  offer  that  kind 
 of  um  I  don't  know  kind  of  jungle  Vibe 
 um  so  if  you're  looking  for  a  great 
 bedding  plant  they're  fantastic  and  I'll 
 be  sure  to  list  more  and  more  as  we  come 
 on  Burl  marks  is  one  of  my  favorites  oh 
 you  guys  know  that  dwarf  Al  acaas  is 
 another  favorite  I  mean  there  are  so 
 many  but  these  are  um  I  think  these 
 would  be  perfect  for  for  new  gardeners 
 because  if  if  you're  in  Florida  just 
 because  of  what  they  offer  just  like  I 
 mentioned  they're  just  just  just  a  tough 
 easy  care  plant  I  am  going  to  quickly 
 show  you  the  mares  because  we're  over 
 here  the  agonia  um  Mares  I  just  think 
 that  um  they're  going  to  create  a  nice 
 big  bunch  of  color  so  I  planted  them 
 earlier  in  the  year  and  they're  doing 
 really  well  they're  flushing  out  they're 
 a  little  slower  growing  than  these  guys 
 here  so  these  are  recent  plants  these 
 are  the  Silver  Bay  or  Diamond  Frost 
 whichever  you  prefer  to  call  them  and 
 the  maras  are  um  ideal  for  just  being 
 kind  of  more  vertical  these  are  chunky 
 and  wide  these  are  a  little  thinner 
 grouping  and  these  kind  of  stay  chunky 
 and  fat  this  is  a  very  new  planting  and 
 they're  just  taking  off  and  I  mainly  did 
 this  planting  of  agonas  because  in  the 
 back  I'm  so  thrilled  with  them  and  I 
 wanted  to  kind  of  see  how  they're  going 
 to  do  in  this  particular  spot  because  we 
 get  a  little  bit  more  afternoon  sun  as 
 that  Sun  hits  around  the  corner  of  the 
 house  so  I  wanted  to  see  if  we're  going 
 to  change  color  variations  or  if  um 
 we're  going  to  have  any  burn  or  any  kind 
 of  issues  and  so  far  so  good  I'm  really 
 really  happy  with  it  um  this  burn  that 
 you  see  here  this  is  from  the  nursery  I 
 actually  picked  these  up  on  clearance 
 because  I  wanted  to  see  how  they  they 
 were  going  to  um  how  they  were  going  to 
 fit  this  spot  and  I  just  needed  to  fill 
 the  Gap  in  they  um  so  we're  we're  really 
 going  to  really  get  a  good  good  test  in 
 this  particular  spot  so  we'll  see  how 
 they  do  so  an  homage  to  my  mom  of  course 
 you  know  I  um  you  know  I  love  to  put 
 plants  and  trees  outside  just  to  see  how 
 they're  going  to  do  sometimes  they  do 
 fantastic  sometimes  they  crash  and  burn 
 but  um  I  did  end  up  putting  an  agly 
 anema  Silver  Bay  in  this  pot  and  I'm 
 absolutely  in  love  with  it  I  mean  look 
 at  this  white  stemming  on  this  guy  um 
 been  in  this  pot  for  a  little  over  a 
 year  I  mixed  them  in  with  a  few  other 
 other  variegated  plants  just  to  give 
 them  a  showstopper  but  look  at  that  that 
 white  stemming  it's  about  time  to  start 
 taking  some  cuting  from  him  but  oh  I 
 just  I  just  love  it  this  is  an  area  that 
 just  pretty  much  gets  rain  waterer  and 
 maybe  a  little  bit  you  know  a  little  bit 
 of  water  as  I  think  about  it  but  oh  my 
 gosh  you  guys  so  whether  it's  in  a  pot 
 or  whether  it's  in  the  ground  they  do  so 
 fantastic  now  I  will  note  I  do  have  one 
 inside  my  house  I  actually  have  it 
 hanging  on  my  wall  I'll  get  Bryce  to  pop 
 in  a  picture  of  what  that  looks  like  but 
 it  is  um  it's  in  an 
 area  I  feel  like  I  feel  very  bad  about 
 saying  this  but  it's  in  an  area  that 
 gets  no  water  so  I  walk  by  this  area  all 
 the  time  and  for  whatever  reason  forget 
 to  water  this  grouping  of  plants  on  my 
 wall  and  um  it  never  lets  me  down  every 
 time  I  look  at  it  I  think  oh  shoot  sorry 
 I'll  be  right  back  with  water  and  um  I 
 that's  exactly  how  it  gets  water  it  gets 
 water  like  every  3  weeks  or  so  and  I 
 know  I  shouldn't  even  say  that  but  it's 
 so  happy  it's  beautiful  it  hasn't  grown 
 a  ton  but  it  is  always  upright  the  the 
 leaves  are  are  just  absolutely  stunning 
 so  you  know  as  an  indoor  plant  as  an 
 outdoor  plant  I  have  I  have  no  bad 
 things  to  say  about  the  agonas  um  and 
 what  they  offer  because  what  a  what  a 
 gorgeous  variegated  species  for  um  a 
 variety  of  different  um 
 applications  so  now  you  guys  know  why 
 the  variegated  heart  fight 
 and  the  Deen  bakia  and  the  agonas  are  my 
 favorite  of  all  the  plants  that  I  have 
 in  the  garden  I  feel  like  I  shouldn't 
 even  say  that  you  know  it's  like 
 choosing  between  your  children  but  you 
 know  if  I  were  to  to  share  with  you  guys 
 what  are  tough  tried  true  can  make  it 
 through  a  lot  of  different  you  know 
 applications  and  also  you  know  aren't 
 too  much  maintenance  those  would  be  my 
 top  three  and  it  was  a  very  big  surprise 
 to  me  considering  they're  truly  indoor 
 plants  uh  so  I  thought  if  there  were  a 
 surprise  to  me  as  a  landscape  Gardener 
 for  2  years  I'm  a  landscape  designer  and 
 I  do  projects  all  through  the  Treasure 
 Coast  Space  Coast  Area  and  yet  I  use 
 them  very  little  actually  in  gardens 
 until  now  so  this  is  like  their  big 
 reveal  this  is  like  I'm  going  so  so  you 
 future  clients  you  guys  know  that  I'm 
 going  to  be  incorporating  them  in 
 gardens  because  I  am  super  happy  with 
 how  they've  reacted  in  my  garden  so  if 
 you  guys  have  a  favorite  um  that  you  put 
 in  your  garden  and  you  absolutely  love 
 it  you  just  kind  of  want  to  go  back  and 
 buy  a  million  of  them  and  incorporate 
 them  in  your  garden  then  please  list  it 
 in  the  comments  down  below  because  I 
 love  how  this  community  shares  all  their 
 gardening  tips  and  it  really  just  kind 
 of  helps  us  all  create  that  gorgeous  you 
 know  tropical  jungle  that  we're  looking 
 for  so  please  share  it  down  the  comments 
 down  below  also  comment  true  Gardener 
 because  you  true  gardeners  made  it 
 through  the  video  I  appreciate  it  so 
 much  it  makes  me  smile  and  bright  smile 
 every  time  we  see  a  true  Gardener  if  you 
 guys  like  what  you  see  here  and  this  is 
 kind  of  your  Vibe  this  is  kind  of  your 
 style  then  um  I  will'll  put  our  business 
 contact  down  below  we  are  at  landcape 
 design  and  installation  company  and  this 
 is  the  kind  of  spaces  that  we  create  you 
 know  this  is  the  kind  of  a  look  that 
 we're  going  for  for  all  of  our  clients 
 so  uh  please  reach  out  to  us  I'll  be 
 sure  to  list 
 woo  I'll  be  sure  to  list  everything  down 
 below  but  this  is  uh  this  is  your  style 
 of  video  and  you  like  this  video  then 
 check  out  my  five  favorite  Palms  oh  my 
 gosh  I  go  in  detail  about  the  the  the 
 Staples  that  I  put  into  the  garden  as  a 
 landscape  designer  for  all  these  years  I 
 have  been  through  the  gamut  of  different 
 palms  and  plants  and  trees  check  out 
 this  video  here  it'll  tell  you  all  about 
 my  five  favorite  thank  you  guys  so  much 
 for  joining  us  today  and  I  will  see  you 
 in  the  very  next  video

---

 so  hello  gardeners  welcome  back  so  we're 
 in  Vero  Beach  Florida  again  and  we  are 
 going  to  do  a  front  yard  garden  tour  now 
 this  one's  a  little  bit  a  little  bit 
 different  so  I'm  excited  to  share  this 
 one  with  you  um  this  one  here  is  a  more 
 of  a  clean  line  kind  of  garden  my  um  my 
 uh  client  was  like  you  know  what  I  I 
 want  to  I  want  to  appreciate  the  colors 
 I  want  to  appreciate  the  stone  but  I 
 don't  um  I  don't  want  to  be  working  out 
 in  the  garden  you  know  more  than  maybe  a 
 few  times  a  year  and  so  I  was  like  oh  I 
 got  you  so  not  my  typical  Garden  um  in 
 in  the  ways  that  I  like  to  layer  things 
 but  I  do  think  that  it's  a  very  crisp 
 very  clean  and  still  has  a  nice  pop  of 
 color  so  well  I'll  pop  I'll  get  Bryce  to 
 pop  in  the  before  picture  this  was  your 
 typical  Builder  package  here  in  buau 
 Beach  you  know  um  we  kept  um  this  one 
 tree  in  place  I  don't  think  we  kept 
 anything  else  in  the  garden  but  we  did 
 keep  the  one  tree  and  then  we  kind  of 
 lost  everything  else  and  and  kind  of 
 removed  it  but  came  in  with  good  soil 
 and  kind  of  came  in  with  a  plan  so  we 
 wanted  originally  um  the  end  of  his 
 Garden  kind  of  stopped  right  here  on  the 
 corner  of  the  house  and  so  as  you  guys 
 know  from  my  previous  videos  you  know 
 that  I  really  like  to  draw  the  beds  out 
 as  far  out  as  we  can  get  them  so  they're 
 kind  of  kind  of  on  the  angle  of  the  of 
 the  house  to  me  that  always  makes  things 
 look  makes  the  home  look  wher  really 
 branching  out  using  your  whole  property 
 line  the  way  I  look  at  it  if  you're 
 taxed  use  it  so  um  this  comes  all  the 
 way  out  as  far  as  we  can  go  that  the  HOA 
 allowed  us  to  go  so  I  ended  up 
 incorporating  a  triple  foxtail  Palm  I 
 was  only  able  to  use  one  tree  we  only 
 had  the  room  for  one  tree  um  so  why  not 
 go  why  not  go  with  a  biggie  so  I  used  a 
 beautiful  triple  Foxdale  Palm  to  Anchor 
 this  corner  and  I  think  it  does  a  nice 
 job  of  kind  of  giving  an  ending  canopy 
 to  to  the  corner  of  the  house  just  I 
 love  it  um  did  a  backdrop  of  some  nice 
 red  copper  leaves  these  are  the  Rojo  red 
 copper  leaves  and  they're  really  growing 
 into  just  a  gorgeous  dense  dark 
 coloration  amongst  these  variegated 
 arbac  colas  I  mean  I  just  love  the 
 combination 
 of  Reds  with  this  yellow  now  I  know 
 yellow  aracas  they  get  a  bad  wrap 
 they're  used  in  Builder  packages 
 everywhere  heck  they're  you  know  right 
 next  to  us  but  they're  used  often  often 
 that  you  get  a  good  quality  variety  of 
 these  and  you  and  you  just  kind  of  keep 
 up  with  the  a  little  extra  fertilization 
 just  because  a  plant  doesn't  need  much 
 doesn't  mean  that  it  really  um  doesn't 
 Thrive  with  a  little  bit  of  extra  love 
 so  fertilizing  this  three  times  a  year 
 like  you  do  the  rest  of  your  Tropicals 
 makes  a  huge  difference  to  make  them  a 
 little  bit  more  interesting  instead  of 
 just  having  a  little  combination  or  a 
 little  cluster  here  we  kind  of  have  a 
 grouping  that  kind  of  Curves  here  wraps 
 around  the  backside  of  this  dark 
 coloration  anytime  I  use  something  dark 
 I  pair  it  with  something  bright  in  the 
 front  then  I  go  back  with  dark  again  and 
 that's  what  we  have  here  these  three 
 tiers  alone  are  always  going  to 
 complement  each  other  we're  going  to 
 have  the  RO  the  the  Louisiana  red  or 
 Rojo  red  copper  leaes  the  variegated 
 arbola  and  the  blue  my  Minds  down  at  the 
 base  it's  going  to  do  a  gorgeous  job  of 
 always  giving  you  that  bright  spot  where 
 you  need  it  it's  sandwiched  in  the 
 middle  of  the  two  darks  you  know  you  got 
 a  small  spot  in  your  garden  or  a  small 
 island  in  your  garden  these  three 
 together  they're  just  just  they're  just 
 a  prime  plant  grouping  they're  going  to 
 grow  real  well  together  these  are  never 
 going  to  overtake  these  they're  always 
 going  to  show  off  each  other  just  make 
 sure  that  your  bright  tone  is  always  in 
 the  middle  so  you  can  sandwich  it  with 
 two  darker  tones  but  these  three  tiers 
 that's  always  going  to  be  a  ground  cover 
 this  is  always  going  to  be  an 
 intermediate  plant  and  this  is  always 
 going  to  be  um  the  taller  backdrop  you 
 know  and  then  just  and  then  of  course 
 out  in  the  center  is  going  to  be  your 
 focal  point  your  focal  point  tree  so 
 whether  this  is  an  island  in  the  middle 
 of  your  yard  and  you  wrap  it  this  way  or 
 if  it's  just  like  this  and  it's  just  the 
 edge  of  the  bed  design  these  three  are 
 they're  they're  game  changers  they're 
 great  companion  plants  together  so  don't 
 be  afraid  to  pick  them  up  I  mean  look 
 how  dark  and  contrasting  when  your  eye 
 looks  at  these  you  go  from  Bright  dark 
 bright  dark  and  I  just  I  love  that  kind 
 of  that  waxy  leaf  look  to  their  color  I 
 love  that  they're  a  whole  different 
 texture  than  these  I  mean  just  look  at 
 how  these  complement  each  other  so  even 
 if  you  can't  in  some  cases  just  because 
 of  um  shade  conditions  or  light 
 conditions  I  can't  go  light  or  dark  and 
 if  that  happens  in  your  particular 
 landscape  then  go  ahead  and  mix  textures 
 mix  a  small  leaf  with  a  big  leaf  even  if 
 they're  both  greens  that  makes  it  makes 
 such  a  difference  we've  wrapped  this 
 around  the  centerpiece  which  is  the  king 
 SEO  and  then  it  continues  on  here  and 
 then  we  flanked  it  with  another 
 collection  of  Mami  croin  and  um  this  is 
 all  so  easy  to  keep  nice  and  small  and 
 compact  I  mean  being  out  in  this  Garden 
 is  probably  pretty  minimal  so  I  think  it 
 does  a  nice  job  of  allowing  you  to  see 
 the  stone  through  it  we  did  border  the 
 edging  here  with  some  aluminum  alloy 
 edging  and  it  just  kind  of  gives  it  a 
 nice  invisible  Edge  line  here  so  and 
 holds  that  stone  in  right  by  the 
 walkways  I  usually  like  to  flank 
 whatever  I  do  here  I'll  do  a  little 
 cluster  of  it  here  so  as  you're  coming 
 in  there's  just  symmetry  so  I've  got  a 
 little  clustering  of  U  foxtail  Ferns  and 
 then  the  same  on  this  this  side  here  and 
 then  these  were  original  um  these  were 
 dwarf  exor  they  were  over  there  and  I 
 just  moved  them  as  a  backdrop  to  this 
 Pym  8  Palm  so  this  was  the  original  Pym 
 dat  palm  and  it  wasn't  too  bad  for  a 
 builder  packag  pygmy  date  palm  you  guys 
 can  see  the  difference  I  mean  this  is  a 
 pretty  good  siiz  tree  but  look  how  small 
 even  those  are  four  trunks  look  how 
 small  the  trunks  are  so  that's  kind  of 
 what  I  was  meaning  try  to  find  a  nice 
 Pym  at  Palm  when  um  when  your  Builder  is 
 is  in  or  your  landscaper  is 
 incorporating  them  into  your  garden 
 because  it  does  make  a  huge  difference 
 sometimes  people  don't  even  realize  it's 
 the  same  tree  but  it's  just  a  a  better 
 version  versus  a  version  that's  kind  of 
 more  of  a  a  lower  grade  so  this  one's 
 been  fertilized  it's  got  new  soil  around 
 it  it's  it's  going  to  it's  going  to 
 bounce  back  so  and  and  you  know  you  have 
 a  little  bit  of  say  when  it  comes  to 
 that  for  the  most  part  A  lot  of  people 
 do  not  realize  that  um  your  your  Builder 
 will  all  allow  you  to  pick  a  lot  of  your 
 plants  and  your  trees  so  they'll  say  is 
 there  anything  specific  that  you  want  to 
 do  and  if  they  don't  say  it  just  mention 
 it  you  know  say  hey  do  I  have  you  know 
 can  I  have  some  saying  of  where  I'm 
 going  to  spend  my  3,000  or  5,000  or 
 whatever  it  is  that's  part  of  your 
 Builder  package  do  I  have  any  say  in 
 that  because  you  know  that  gives  us  or 
 your  next  phase  of  landscape  um 
 something  to  work  with  so  um  that 
 definitely  do  that  also  do  not  be  afraid 
 even  if  it  they  cost  more  to  add  in  some 
 premium  soil  into  your  garden  because 
 that  also  makes  a  huge  difference  Okay 
 so  this  is  the  other  side  of  the 
 driveway  as  you  can  see  this  is  a  very 
 small  yard  so  this  is  what  I  would 
 consider  this  is  a  yard  size  that  we 
 technically  do  a  lot  of  so  um  this  we 
 anchored  it  with  a  big  fat  boy  of  a  fox 
 tail  Palm  I  mean  it  is  this  is  gorgeous 
 he's  I  mean  like  he's  wider  around  than 
 I  am  well  no  he's  not  but  you  know  he's 
 he's  a  pretty  good  size  and  um  I  was 
 thrilled  when  I  saw  him  in  the  farm  he 
 was  just  absolutely  stunning  so  when  I 
 do  my  designs  um  I  don't  know  if  you 
 guys  know  this  or  maybe  I  mention 
 mentioned  it  in  a  previous  video  when  I 
 do  my  designs  I  actually  tag  all  of 
 these  trees  before  I  prepare  my  designs 
 so  I'll  kind  of  have  exactly  what  I  have 
 in  mind  what  I've  talked  to  the 
 homeowner  or  my  client  about  we'll  go 
 through  pictures  and  then  I'll  actually 
 go  into  some  of  my  farms  and  put  blue 
 tags  on  what  I  I  think  is  going  to  work 
 and  then  when  I  meet  back  with  my  client 
 I  um  you  know  I  show  them  the  design  if 
 it  moves  forward  they  set  those  um  those 
 tags  for  transport  and  when  we  move 
 forward  into  the  installation  process 
 that's  the  way  I  like  to  work  as  a 
 designer  which  is  a  really  important 
 thing  to  do  because  a  lot  of  time 
 there's  so  much  movement  in  these  in 
 these  nurseries  that  you  think  that  oh 
 gosh  there's  a  big  source  of  these  and 
 then  when  you  go  to  do  them  two  months 
 later  a  month  later  in  the  in  the 
 landscape  process  they're  not  available 
 so  you  know  it's  it's  a  big  part  of  that 
 so  when  I'm  tagging  trees  it's  almost 
 like  I'm  not  necessarily  like  shopping 
 for  trees  I  guess  it's  more  like 
 shopping  for  Christmas  trees  you  know 
 when  you  go  there  and  you  you're 
 twisting  it  and  you're  turning  in  you're 
 thinking  if  it's  going  to  fit  in  the 
 proper  space  in  your  in  your  house 
 Landscaping  is  the  same  exact  way  so 
 when  you  hire  a  landscape  contractor  or 
 a 
 designer  expect  that  they're  doing  that 
 because  that  is  a  big  part  of  our  job  is 
 finding  the  right  tree  for  the  right 
 place  um  you  know  for  for  our  landscape 
 so  that  was  a  long  story  to  say  this 
 tree  was  my  favorite  tree  to  tag  I 
 absolutely  love  just  how  chunky  and 
 heavy  it  was  I've  even  got  pictures  of 
 it  going  in  or  video  of  it  going  in  and 
 it  was  just  a  big  boy  to  try  to  get  in 
 with  our  machine  because  it  was  super 
 super  heavy  but  I  think  he  found  the 
 perfect  home  he's  very  happy  he's 
 withstood  the  the  terrible  storms  that 
 we've  had  recently  ly  and  um  he  is  a 
 nice  Anchor  Point  and  what  I  mean  to  say 
 is  we  needed  something  with  some  girth 
 here  because  we  only  had  room  for  one 
 tree  on  this  corner  and  it  couldn't  be 
 another  triple  so  that's  the  reason  why 
 I  wanted  such  a  chunky  tree  again  I 
 guess  this  looks  familiar  to  you  guys 
 you  know  so  we  have  a  very  similar 
 Island  as  we  do  on  the  opposite  side  we 
 have  the  backdrop  of  the  the  um  red 
 copper  leaves  that's  going  to  be  of 
 course  your  big  backdrop  we  have  the 
 variegated  arbac  colas  and  we  have  the 
 blue  my  minds  but  since  we  have  the 
 dwarf  exor  that  were  um  used  from  the 
 original  Builder  package  over  there  I 
 brought  in  a  handful  of  dwarf  aoras  on 
 this  side  just  so  we  have  a  nice  pairing 
 on  both  sides  of  the  driveway  once  you 
 kind  of  have  a  pet  you  just  continue  on 
 with  that  pet  and  and  just  kind  of  make 
 sure  that  you  keep  your  layers 
 appropriate  Low  Middle  High  and  these 
 combinations  the  reason  why  I  stress  on 
 them  is  because  I  they're  so  important 
 when  you're  kind  of  arranging  a 
 landscape  they're  the  very  first  thing 
 that  I  learned  um  well  after  I  learned 
 about  plants  and  trees  the  very  first 
 thing  that  I  learned  about  in  my  career 
 was  how  to  pair  and  what  to  pair  with 
 that's  why  in  Bryon  mine  um  our  upcoming 
 book  we  stress  not  only  the  details 
 about  the  plants  and  the  trees  but  we 
 put  in  the  combination  plants  the 
 perfect  combination  plants  for  each  of 
 these  plants  that  that  we  chose  um  for 
 the  book  so  that  way  you  guys  can  like 
 literally  take  it  like  a  shopping  list 
 and  say  oh  this  is  kind  of  my  space  and 
 these  are  going  to  work  in  my  space  and 
 then  now  you  have  a  whole  collection 
 versus  just  picking  one  plant  or  one 
 tree  out  throughout  the  book  so  like  a 
 cheat  code  yes  right  says  like  a  cheat 
 code  so  if  this  is  a  look  that  you  guys 
 like  and  you  would  like  to  see  something 
 kind  of  similar  to  it  but  this  one  has  a 
 little  bit  of  wildlife  action  a  little 
 bit  of  butterfly  attractant  and  it's 
 actually  just  a  few  doors  down  from  this 
 house  then  check  out  that  video  I  will 
 get  Bry  to  put  it  here  he's  pointing 
 this  way  I'll  get  him  to  put  it  here  for 
 you  guys  to  take  a  peek  and  um  I  thought 
 that  was  a  fun  Garden  Tour  and 
 Incorporated  a  lot  of  great  pollinators 
 so  you  guys  thank  you  so  much  for 
 joining  us  I  will  see  you  in  the  very 
 next  Garden  Tour  oh  that's  what  I  forgot 
 comment  true  Gardener  you  guys  thank  you 
 true  gardeners  I  will  see  you  soon 
 bye-bye  by

---

 hey  gardeners  take  it  away  hey  gardeners 
 welcome  back  today  we  are  in  my  backyard 
 yet  again  and  I  have  a  special  guest 
 with 
 me  hey  I'm  Bryce  I'm  usually  on  the 
 other  side  of  the  camera  yes  so  Bryce  is 
 GNA  join  us  today  for  a  question  and 
 answer  video  you  guys  are  phenomenal  you 
 you  put  such  great  questions  on  the 
 screen  and  I  think  a  lot  of  people  have 
 these  questions  so  I  thought  gosh  let's 
 do  a  a  question  and  answer  um  video 
 address  it  all  at  once  yeah  let's 
 address  it  all  at  once  and  hopefully 
 this  helps  the  many  of  you  guys  I  think 
 we  have  a  couple  of  good  questions  just 
 for  the  situation  that's  happening  in 
 Florida  right  now  as  you  guys  know  a 
 freeze  is 
 coming  we  panic  over  a  freeze  hurricanes 
 and  freezes  we've  got  about  probably  10 
 comments  from  I've  seen  just  so  far 
 about  January  12th  okay  it's  happening 
 everybody  stay  calm  what's  the  procedure 
 everyone  what's  the  procedure  stay  calm 
 it's  just  funny  because  it's  13  days 
 from  now  and  we're  already  preparing  so 
 it  is  very  timely  that  we're  going  to  do 
 this  video  for  you  guys  so  how  best  to 
 protect  your  plants  from  a  freeze  that's 
 the  question  right  that  would  be  the 
 first  question  that  we  have  this  is  the 
 way  that  I  do  it  when  I  know  like  a 
 hardcore  freeze  is  coming  the  very  first 
 thing  that  you  guys  want  to  do  is  water 
 water  water  I  mean  the  the  day  before 
 water  a  good  if  you  water  naturally 
 about  15  20  minutes  like  I  do  water  a 
 good  45  minutes  to  an  hour  really 
 saturate  the  area  I  mean  like  don't 
 don't  make  like  the  The  Mulch  move 
 around  where  things  are  floating  but 
 definitely  um  give  it  a  good  dose  in  of 
 water  and  then  the  day  of  the  freeze  hit 
 it  again  with  a  good  dose  in  of  water 
 preferably  early  part  of  the  day  so  it 
 has  time  to  really  get  into  the  into  the 
 ground  which  seems  a  little 
 contradictive  you  know  what  I  mean  like 
 you  would  think  that  your  plants  are 
 going  to  freeze  if  it's  getting  cold  I 
 know  I  would  be  cold  if  if  I  was 
 standing  in  the  rain  in  the  cold  with 
 water  right  how  does  that  make  sense  so 
 that's  why  you  want  to  do  it  way  before 
 so  you  want  to  make  sure  that  you  guys 
 water  earlier  in  the  day  when  it's 
 beautiful  and  sunny  like  this  even  if 
 it's  cool  but  it's  nice  and  sunny  water 
 early  in  the  day  let  it  really  get  into 
 the  ground  so  believe  it  or  not  that 
 becomes  that  water  becomes  an  insulator 
 and  really  just  kind  of  helps  protect 
 that  root  system  help  keep  that  warmth 
 from  the  ground  in  there  so  the  next 
 thing  to  do  is  um  if  you  have  those  old 
 style  incandescent  Christmas  lights  um 
 I'll  get  bryy  post  a  picture  I  know  we 
 have  some  and  I  have  some  on  my  um 
 Amazon  storefront  but  I  use  them  all  the 
 time  I  kind  of  keep  them  in  my  attic 
 because  they're  perfect  they  last 
 forever  and  they  provide  a  little  bit  of 
 heat  so  if  I've  got  certain  species  in 
 my  garden  like  my  laala  over  there  which 
 you  know  she  kind  of  doesn't  quite 
 belong  here  in  this  we're  just  a  little 
 Zone  to  cold  happy  but  because  she's 
 encased  in  such  plant  material  and  I 
 know  if  we're  going  to  get  like  a 
 serious  freeze  I'll  cover  her  I'll  wrap 
 her  with  those  Christmas  lights  and  just 
 really  make  sure  that  um  when  I  cover 
 her  I've  got  that  those  Christmas  lights 
 that  provide  that  heat  and  it  it  does 
 you  wrap  it  in  between  the  roots  yeah 
 you  know  I  just  kind  of  go  around  the 
 base  of  the  the  tree  you  know  go  from 
 the  ground  all  the  way  up  like  if  I  were 
 making  her  colorful  like  for  Christmas 
 and  then  if  she's  got  some  outside  stems 
 and  and  I  have  some  leftover  lights  I 
 kind  of  just  try  to  kind  of  get  it 
 around  those  stems  that  is  such  a 
 fantastic  job  of  providing  that 
 additional  heat  and  sometimes  we're  only 
 talking  you  know  the  difference  between 
 something  freezing  and  dying  a  degrees 
 or  two  so  and  we're  so  fortunate  in 
 Florida  when  those  freezes  happen  you 
 guys  it's  it's  an  hour  maybe  an  hour  and 
 a  half  that  we  have  them  what  kind  of 
 coat  do  you  put  like  over  top  of  it  it's 
 called  a  plant  jacket  so  you  can  use  um 
 I'll  be  sure  to  list  it  in  the 
 description  down  below  the  ones  that  we 
 use  um  I  like  the  plant  jackets  for 
 specific  small  trees  like  my  laala  for 
 instance  that  I  can  completely  wrap  so 
 all  it  is  is  is  a  um  it  just  kind  of  it 
 looks  like  a  big  bag  with  like  a  like  a 
 drawstring  and  then  you  can  kind  of  put 
 it  over  top  of  it  pull  that  draw  string 
 tight  and  it  tucks  up  underneath  the  the 
 the  base  of  the  tree  so  that  way  it  has 
 plenty  of  room  for  the  the  frond  but 
 really  tcks  up  nice  and  tight  which  is 
 another  really  good  point  I'm  fortunate 
 because  my  beds  back  here  are  so  dense 
 and  full  and  that  does  a  good  job  of 
 almost  creating  like  a  plant  blanket  in 
 itself  we  did  a  video  in  the  past  about 
 microclimates  and  it  kind  of  explained 
 how  that  works  if  you  have  a  Boulders  in 
 the  garden  you'll  notice  that  around 
 those  Boulders  and  you're  you're 
 covering  around  Boulders  cover  the 
 boulders  too  because  those  Boulders 
 retain  that  heat  so  much  that  at  the  end 
 the  middle  of  the  night  it's  still 
 putting  off  some  of  that  extra  heat  or 
 near  a  wall  it's  almost  like  you  know 
 like  the  the  old  the  old  saying  like 
 huddle  together  for  warmth  it's  really 
 that  yeah  and  then  do  bounce  back  what 
 you  said  with  the  rock  I  remember 
 running  across  a  rock  picture  where  um 
 it  was  on  a  sidewalk  and  there  was  snow 
 all  around  it  but  the  heat  of  the  rock 
 had  melted  the  snow  around  that  the 
 center  of  that  I  thought  that  was  really 
 cool  so  very  true  the  next  question  we 
 have  is  do  you  recommend  weed  matting 
 under  landscape  beds  with 
 mulch  okay  so  I  know  who  asked  this 
 question  hello  Becky  boots  I  did 
 actually  answer  this  in  her  comment  so 
 no  I  do  not  use  weed  matting  under  mulch 
 the  reason  why  I  don't  is  because  mulch 
 is  meant  to  break  down  it  really  is  it's 
 great  for  the  health  of  the  soil  the  way 
 it  breaks  down  into  the  soil  and  when 
 you  have  a  weed  matting  barrier  and  it's 
 sitting  on  that  plastic  that  mulch  does 
 continue  to  break  down  unfortunately  it 
 it  it  it  just  piles  in  with  along  with 
 all  the  leaf  debris  and  everything  else 
 that  floats  into  those  beds  throughout 
 the  year  and  then  what  that  creates 
 pretty  much  is  like  the  perfect 
 environment  for  weed  seeds  what  areed 
 weed  seeds  are  like  when  you're  you're 
 long  Moses  the  lawn  a  little  bit  of  the 
 um  the  grass  gets  in  there  it  puts  weed 
 seed  it  puts  grass  seed  in  your  beds 
 okay  and  then  of  course  the  birds  drop 
 it  and  other  debris  happens  where  it 
 drops  seeds  within  those  beds  and  then 
 um  when  you  have  mulch  mulch  is  a  great 
 soil  conditioner  so  it  breaks  down  and 
 um  and  it  just  kind  of  it's  a  very  soft 
 and  draining  soil  so  which  is  perfect 
 for  New  Growth  for  new  weeds  so  what 
 you're  really  doing  is  creating  a 
 perfect  bed  for  for  weeds  to  grow 
 after  a  couple  years  of  the  mulch  being 
 in  the  ground  so  what  you  can  do  if  you 
 already  have  it  in  there  and  I  know  what 
 a  task  it  is  to  pull  up  all  that  weed 
 Matty  um  just  every  year  and  a  half  to 
 two  years  no  more  than  that  make  sure 
 before  applying  new  mulch  you  know  cuz 
 we  all  love  that  new  mulch  kind  of  look 
 it's  just  polished  and  nice  but  before 
 applying  that  new  mulch  rake  out  that 
 old  mulch  haul  it  away  and  then  apply 
 the  new  mulch  so  you're  not  creating 
 kind  of  a  bedding  situation  for  for 
 Weeds  now  with  rock  um  I  absolutely  I 
 put  weed  matting  down  because  Rock  will 
 disappear  you  like  rock  or  mulch  I  you 
 know  I  love  them  both  I  they  they're  I 
 think  they're  great  for  for  different 
 purposes  I  think  mulch  is  um  is  a 
 healthier  thing  for  the  beds  because  it 
 breaks  down  it  conditions  the  M 
 conditions  the  soil  over  time  it's 
 perfect  for  micronutrients  to  move 
 around  helps  with  drainage  so  it's 
 really  really  good  to  have  in  your  bed 
 um  I  would  use  Rock  in  an  area  like  a 
 front  yard  landscape  bed  for  instance 
 that  is  very  very  clean  lines  that 
 you're  going  to  see  big  gaps  between  the 
 plants  so  I  might  have  something  more 
 uniformed  or  rounded  and  then  you're 
 going  to  see  mulch  all  the  way  around 
 that  plant  grouping  because  you  get  the 
 benefit  of  rock  on  average  rock  is  uh 
 four  or  five  time  maybe  five  times  more 
 expensive  than  mulch  no  doubt  so  but  the 
 good  thing  about  rock  is  it's  permanent 
 if  you  put  the  weed  barrier  down  it 
 helps  hold  that  rock  level  and  in  place 
 and  it  gives  you  a  nice  bedding  area  so 
 you  might  have  to  touch  it  up  every 
 seven  or  eight  years  a  little  bit  of  few 
 B  here  and  there  overall  rock  is 
 permanent  where  mulch  is  something  that 
 you  do  have  to  continue  to  add  to  to 
 continue  to  freshen  up  I  remember  us 
 having  a  conversation  about  like 
 sprinkler  heads  and  if  iron  gets  in 
 there  and  you  have  Rock  in  the  beddings 
 if  you  have  rust  in  your  water  you 
 definitely  want  to  avoid  um  putting 
 White  Rock  or  nice  rock  in  because  it 
 will  unless  you  want  a  nice  Tan  on  the 
 Rock  exactly  you  will  um  you  you'll  even 
 with  the  gray  rock  you'll  notice  a 
 tinting  on  it  you'll  notice  a  rust 
 tinting  on  it  so  and  that's  the  only 
 time  that  I  really  kind  of  think  that  a 
 drip  line  is  a  really  good  solution  for 
 for  landscaping  because  it's  underneath 
 that  that  rock  um  and  then  it  you  know 
 just  seeps  out  or  it's  underneath  the 
 mulch  and  seeps  out  because  it  it  also 
 gets  on  the  plants  and  stains  it  so  drip 
 line  is  a  great  solution  if  you  have 
 rust  in  your  water  move  on  yeah  next 
 question  all  righty  could  you  fill  the 
 bottom  of  your  garden  pots  with  mulch 
 rather  than  stone  or  soil  I'm  guessing 
 to  make  it  lighter  yes  yes  and  um  a 
 great  question  for  right  now  too  because 
 we're  all  kind  of  planting  our  front 
 door  pots  you  know  the  holidays  are  here 
 and  you  know  everything  is  kind  of 
 getting  a  fresh  tune  up  for  the  season 
 change  um  our  season  change  in  Florida 
 our  second  season  of  the  year  hey  a 
 freeze  is  coming  come  that's  right 
 that's  right  okay  yes  as  far  as  planting 
 goes  um  I  know  that  putting  a  bunch  of 
 soil  and  especially  those  tall  Planters 
 by  your  front  door  um  can  be  a  lot  you 
 don't  want  to  put  mulch  in  there  I  know 
 that  mulch  is  way  cheaper  um  than  stone 
 or  soil  um  but  if  you  put  mul  mulch  in 
 there  um  especially  if  it's  the  dyed 
 mulch  you're  going  to  get  some  of  that 
 that  um  leaching  onto  your  pavers  or 
 your  concrete  so  you  don't  want  to  do 
 that  and  um  that's  not  fun  no  it's  not 
 and  then  also  mulch  is  a  great  way  to 
 keep  plants  moist  and  if  you  have  a  big 
 base  of  that  in  there  instead  of 
 allowing  it  to  really  drain  like  you 
 think  it  would  it's  actually  going  to 
 hold  moisture  in  that  which  is  going  to 
 cause  mold  and  it  just  causes  a  whole 
 bunch  of  fungus  and  other  issues  you 
 guys  don't  even  want  to  don't  even  want 
 to  deal  with  the  way  we  do  it  when  we 
 plant  for  others  when  we  um  when  we  do 
 our  Landscaping  is  we  put  gravel  at  the 
 bottom  um  we  put  a  bigger  gravel  we  use 
 two  different  kinds  we  use  a  big  gravel 
 at  the  bottom  sounds  a  lot  heavier  it  it 
 is  going  to  be  heavier  then  we  put  a 
 weed  barrier  in  there  and  then  we  put  a 
 smaller  gravel  and  then  we  put  a  weed 
 barrier  in  there  and  then  it's  actually 
 called  cheesecloth  but  you  know  it's  the 
 same  kind  of  whatever  barrier  that  you 
 can  use  you  can  use  a  cheesecloth  or  a 
 weed  barrier  um  and  then  we  do  sounds 
 like  I'm  making  lasagna  yeah  it  does 
 like  a  BLT  or  something  so  and  then  we 
 put  the  three-part  Moss  mix  our  good 
 soil  mixture  and  then  we'll  add  pine 
 bark  nuggets  in  there  now  I  know  pine 
 bark  nuggets  are  not  hardwood  mulch 
 that's  not  kind  of  what  I'm  talking 
 about  they're  pine  bark  nuggets  with 
 which  is  a  good  conditioning  and  it  also 
 leaves  a  little  bit  of  um  air  movement 
 in  there  so  you  can  kind  of  you  know 
 your  roots  have  places  to  move  around 
 it's  not  so  condensed  and  so  tight 
 that's  the  way  that  we  do  it  now  I  have 
 in  the  past  um  used  water  bottles  at  the 
 base  um  when  I  had  to  keep  it  real  light 
 and  the  client  had  had  an  excessive 
 amount  of  water  bottles  I  didn't  ask  why 
 she  had  to  keep  it  light  she  had  to  be 
 able  to  move  it  around  so  and  they  were 
 pretty  good  siiz  pots  so  um  we  used 
 water  bottles  all  at  the  bottom  put  them 
 put  the  um  cheesecloth  down  and  then  um 
 didn't  then  did  our  layers  and  avoided 
 using  the  rock  so  um  so  I  I'm  I'm  I'm 
 not  promoting  that  that  was  a  that  was  a 
 request  and  and  then  I  looked  online  and 
 that  is  a  doable  thing  that  is  something 
 that  somebody  does  I  do  need  to  check  in 
 with  her  just  to  make  sure  that  that  all 
 works  I  like  how  you  did  questions 
 though  you're  like  water  bottles  all 
 right  no  I  did  I  researched  it  I  a  good 
 Landscape  designer  I  did  do  my  research 
 but  you  know  I'm  I'm  not  certain  my 
 worry  with  those  kind  of  things  are  they 
 settle  too  much  now  we  crushed  and  we 
 you  know  we  did  it  but  obviously  the 
 whole  purpose  of  that  is  to  have  it 
 lighter  and  also  have  it  um  for  drainage 
 so  we  put  a  drainage  um  Bas  at  the 
 bottom  so  water  will  drain  into  that  and 
 not  into  onto  her  nice  papers  and  um  but 
 yeah  thanks  thanks  for  that  I  probably 
 didn't  even  to  check  in  much  they  just 
 the  sweetest  lady  in  the  world  so  so  if 
 a  plant  is  getting  into  that  freezing 
 territory  where  it  could  be  on  the  verge 
 or  almost  dead  is  there  a  way  to  help  it 
 bounce  back  yes  yes  so  I  didn't  cover  um 
 last  year  and  we  had  a  couple  early 
 December  we  had  a  couple  really  um  good 
 freezes  and  um  my  sesia  I  mean  they  went 
 on  life  support  and  you  see  how  big  and 
 beautiful  I'll  get  Bry  to  to  show  a 
 picture  how  big  and  beautiful  they  look 
 right  now  but  they  do  not  like  the  CES 
 this  is  a  normal  cycle  that  they  go 
 through  they  turn  brown  they  lose  some 
 of  their  leaves  they  hold  some  of  those 
 brown  leaves  and  um  it's  very  very 
 tempting  to  um  cut  them  back  and  get  all 
 of  that  brown  leaf  off  of  them  you  think 
 to  protect  them  but  definitely  do  not  do 
 that  wait  until  after  the  freeze  uh  fear 
 is  over  usually  late  February  early 
 March  we're  done  with  all  of  that 
 because  I'm  guessing  because  um  you 
 don't  want  another  freeze  to  come  get  it 
 when  you're  trying  okay  when  it's 
 vulnerable  yeah  you  cut  it  all  cut  all 
 of  its  hair  off  and  then  it's  sitting 
 there  shivering  um  so  leave  leave  all 
 the  hair  on  leave  all  the  leaves  on  Let 
 It  insulate  itself  and  then  um  and  then 
 once  it's  all  over  with  then  you  can  do 
 a  nice  cut  back  hit  it  with  a  TriStar  or 
 bifen  it  it's  an  insecticide  and  put  a 
 drench  around  the  base  or  all  over  the 
 plant  and  tree  and  that  way  it  kind  of 
 gives  it  like  a  flu  shot  it  kind  of 
 protects  it  from  um  from  you  know  bugs 
 kind  of  coming  to  attack  it  while  it's 
 weak  the  very  next  thing  that  I  do  I'll 
 add  more  water  everything  gets  more 
 water  after  a  freeze  really  all  that 
 wind  dries  everything  out  so  you  kind  of 
 want  to  make  sure  that  everything  gets 
 good  water  and  then  that's  the  ideal 
 March  is  the  ideal  time  to  fertiliz 
 because  it  it's  the  it's  the  beauty  of 
 Florida  when  spring  happens  and 
 everything  is  really  just  flushing  out 
 and  popping  so  March  is  the  time  that  I 
 naturally  fertilize  so  that's  exactly 
 what  I  would  do  with  all  of  those  plants 
 and  trees  I  might  give  it  additional  um 
 potassium  shot  you  know  with  some  some 
 water  soluble  pottassium  something  like 
 that  I  just  just  to  kind  of  baby  them  a 
 little  bit  tell  them  it's  going  to  be 
 okay  and  then  3  months  later  they  look 
 like  nothing  happened  nice  cool  a 
 question  that  I  know  everybody  is  going 
 to  be  curious  about  how  did  you  get 
 started  with  YouTube  how  did  you  get 
 started  with  the  whole  true  Gardener 
 community  and  kind  of  integrating  videos 
 into  maybe  the  business  a  little  bit 
 thanks  for  putting  me  on  the  spot  there 
 of  course  he  loves  to  do  this  to  me  you 
 guys  so  I  can  tell  you  how  let  me  tell 
 you  so  one  day  I  come  back  from  school 
 and  when  I  was  at  High  school  and  she 
 goes  here's  a  camera  follow  me  outside 
 and  I  was  like  all  right  you  know  don't 
 think  twice  and  we  went  around  this 
 garden  and  believe  it  or  not  I  think 
 that  video  is  still  the  most  watched  on 
 our  YouTube  channel  yes  yeah  it's  the 
 original  Garden  Tour  about  three  or  four 
 years  three  years  ago  I  think  is  when  we 
 started  why  did  you  start  that  so 
 believe  it  or  not  it  was  really  just  to 
 help  my  clients  understand  and 
 illustrate  what  I'd  like  to  do  in  their 
 Garden  so  when  you  look  at  plants  and 
 trees  it's  very  easy  to  just  kind  of  you 
 know  see  them  individually  but  seeing 
 them  their  grow  habits  and  how  they 
 evolve  together  and  why  those  companion 
 plant  groupings  are  so  important  is  so 
 so  helpful  and  so  many  times  when  you  go 
 to  meet  with  a  new  client  Landscaping  um 
 is  looked  at  as  like  Garden  or  no  no 
 sorry  like  like  lawnmowing  yeah  like  a 
 lawn  maintenance  service  that  maybe  just 
 does  a  little  bit  of  of  um  plan  and 
 plants  and  whatnot  or  it's  a  like  your 
 Builder  package  like  we  were  talking 
 about  earlier  um  like  you  know  when  they 
 put  in  just  a  row  of  of  shrubs  and  then 
 you  know  some  trees  here  and  there  um 
 like  a  residential  package  um  it's  it's 
 more  it's  more  thought  of  like  that  not 
 thought  of  like  Gardens  so  trying  to  to 
 um  explain  to  my  clients  the  type  of 
 landscaper  that  I  am  was  really  hard  to 
 to  do  initially  you  know  without  a  lot 
 of  time  so  um  when  I  started  doing  these 
 videos  it  kind  of  let  people  know  if 
 you're  looking  to  create  Gardens  if 
 you're  looking  to  create  outdoor  spaces 
 if  you're  looking  to  create  more  of  a 
 resort  Paradise  yeah  if  you  like  that 
 jungle  Vibe  if  you  like  you  know  if  you 
 like  that  look  um  than  that  on  your  girl 
 I  I  think  that  that's  where  it  started 
 it  was  really  just  to  kind  of  help  share 
 this  is  my  style  if  this  is  you  let  me 
 know  and  I  would  love  to  come  out  and 
 meet  with  you  and  create  these  kind  of 
 spaces  in  your  own  garden  um  I  like  that 
 it's  kind  of  like  almost  like  a  preview 
 and  expectation  of  what  you  were 
 bringing  to  the  table  that's  really  cool 
 yeah  yeah  and  then  then  you  guys  jumped 
 on  board  which  is  just  so  awesome  you 
 diyers  who  were  like  you  know  show  us 
 how  tell  us  how  because  I  I'm  limited  I 
 can  only  do  you  know  I'm  I  am  a  a  a 
 landscape  designer  who  owns  her  own 
 business  and  I  have  a  small  crew  um  and 
 my  you  only  go  to  certain  areas  yeah 
 we're  we're  all  family-owned  business  so 
 we  can  only  go  so  far  um  in  what  we 
 create  so  those  of  you  guys  who  are 
 outside  that  area  have  asked  such  great 
 questions  like  well  why  use  these 
 companion  plant  grou  be  or  you  know  what 
 can  I  put  where  and  you  know  and  and  so 
 it  turned  into  more  of  well  let  me  share 
 my  projects  with  you  guys  but  let  me 
 also  share  process  ADV  process  I  mean 
 you  you've  you've  seen  it  I've  had 
 failures  in  this  yard  I've  had  successes 
 in  this  yard  and  my  goal  is  to  share 
 with  you  both  because  if  you  guys  if 
 I've  had  the  failures  over  the  25  years 
 I  know  so  many  others  have  too  and  so  um 
 I  I  think  that  if  I  I  can  cut  that  off 
 from  you  it's  a  lot  less  expensive  to 
 watch  they  call  I  think  they  call  it 
 experience  tax  that's  what  it  is 
 experience  like  that  better  I  like  that 
 that's  how  I  that's  how  I  originally 
 started  with  YouTube  and  it's  kind  of 
 evolved  into  what  it's  evolved  to  True 
 Gardener  which  I  I  absolutely  love  I 
 love  sharing  these  moments  and  and  then 
 it  turned  into  kind  of  a  pet  project 
 with  me  and  Bryce  when  he  come  home  from 
 college  congratulations  Bryce  just 
 graduated  with  his  master's  degree  byle 
 a  little  bit  yep  uh  got  my  BS  in  um 
 sport  psychology  and  then  I  got  I  got 
 that  in  23  and  then  I  just  graduated 
 with  my  Masters  in  Business 
 Administration  so  and  now  we're  here 
 guys  and  a  proud  mom  and  now  he's  um  now 
 he's  looking  into  landscape  design  and 
 um  of  course  business  so  so  hopefully  I 
 can  help  out  with  you  guys  a  little  bit 
 more  yeah  so  we're  excited  we're  we're 
 very  very  excited  for  the  future  also 
 the  future  I'm  going  to  let  you 
 gardeners  in  on  a  secret  Bryce  well  you 
 may  have  noticed  this  Bryce  is  engaged 
 and  um  to  my  lovely  lovely  future 
 daughter-in-law  Marissa  and  um  we  are 
 actually  going  to  host  their  wedding 
 reception  right  here  so  very  excited  I 
 think  I  called  that  earlier  in  some  of 
 the  videos  If  you  guys  remember  it's 
 probably  somewhere  years  back  actually  I 
 know  the  video  it's  kind  of  like  a  I 
 don't  know  a  small  little  I  don't  know 
 little  Runway  here  so  the  fact  that  you 
 can  walk  underneath  this  and  you  kind  of 
 got  canopy  trees  all  over  you  I  just 
 think  is  is  awesome  it's  I  I  just  think 
 it's  just  so  magical  maybe  one  day  my 
 son  will  get  married  in  the  backyard  who 
 knows  and  you  know  nice  little  walking 
 path  that  would  be  so  cool  I  don't  know 
 you  guys  comment  maybe  we  could  talk 
 them  into  it  anyway  to  put  yeah  so  I  am 
 so  very  excited  to  um  to  you  know  host 
 friends  and  family  it's  going  to  be  very 
 small  a  modest  um  wedding  but  I'll  be 
 sure  to  snap  some  photos  and  we'll  post 
 them  in  some  of  the  videos  so  you  guys 
 can  see  them  because  we're  very  very 
 excited  but  it  goes  back  to  what  you're 
 always  saying  kind  of  creating  a  like  a 
 vacation  spot  in  your  own  backyard  I 
 know  and  it's  like  well  it  was  like  uh 
 what  is  it  stay  prepared  so  you  don't 
 need  to  get  prepared  you  were  stay 
 prepared  yes  it  was  a  it  was  a 
 self-fulfilling  prophecy  for  sure  we 
 started  it  and  it's  so  funny  because  I 
 was  so  worried  about  like  you  know  uh  I 
 wanted  to  have  a  reception  at  a  hall  and 
 you  know  really  do  it  up  because  you 
 know  he's  my  baby  you  know  that's  what 
 moms  want  you  I  wanted  to  make  a  big 
 to-do  and  he's  like  you  know  what  I  love 
 it  here  I  and  so  does  Marissa  he  goes  we 
 just  I  feel  like  we're  having  it  at  a 
 resort  so  let's  just  have  it  here  and  um 
 all  of  our  friends  and  family  it  was  the 
 very  first  thing  that  they  they  said  of 
 course  you're  backyard  why  not  so  you 
 know  that's  what  it  that's  what  it  was 
 meant  to  do  it  was  meant  to  create  a 
 space  for  memories  and  family  and  I'm 
 I'm  so  glad  that  we're  going  to  get  to 
 do  that  this  year  and  enjoy  it  that  kind 
 of  goes  into  your  philosophy  whenever 
 you're  you  know  making  designs  for  other 
 people  it's  like  you  get  to  tell 
 experiences  of  what  you've  did  with  your 
 backyard  and  it's  not  just  um  a  distant 
 thought  or  a  distant  a  distant  distant 
 dream  yeah  you  know  you  want  to  know  how 
 you're  going  to  live  in  that  space 
 that's  almost  one  of  the  first  questions 
 that  I  ask  after  you  know  after  the 
 initial  things  is  what  do  you  what  do 
 you  do  here  what  do  you  do  in  your  yard 
 what  do  you  what  do  you  want  to  do  do 
 you  want  to  entertain  more  do  you  want 
 to  host  do  you  want  to  do  want  to  um  you 
 know  do  you  do  pool  parties  do  you  want 
 do  you  need  privacy  do  you  what  do  you 
 need  like  what  do  you  need  to  engage  and 
 spend  your  Saturday  afternoons  right 
 here  and  enjoy  enjoy  it  and  not  feeling 
 the  need  to  go  somewhere  or  or  take  a 
 vacation  so  um  I  guess  we're  getting  off 
 topic  you  guys  so  we  are  going  to  let 
 you  go  for  the  afternoon  thank  you  so 
 much  for  joining  us  on  this  question  and 
 answer  video  if  this  is  something  you 
 guys  think  that  you  would  like  to  see 
 just  we'll  have  our  morning  coffee  one 
 day  a  week  out  here  and  share  some  of 
 the  questions  then  please  post  some 
 questions  that  you  guys  like  you  know 
 you've  been  wondering  about  that  might 
 be  a  little  bit  longer  winded  than  that 
 we  can't  really  get  back  to  as  much  on 
 on  um  online  that  so  just  post  away  and 
 speaking  of  comments  comment  your 
 Gardener  oh  that's  right  thank  you  guys 
 so  much  it's  been  my  pleasure  it's  been 
 our  pleasure  to  um  to  bring  you  into  our 
 home  and  uh  and  to  do  these  videos 
 together  so  we  will  see  you  in  the  very 
 next  Garden  Tour  take  care  bye  dang 
 that's  way  harder  than  it  looks

---

 what  I  love  about  these  plants  is  that 
 they  pay  rent  so  this  is  a  plant  that 
 reproduces  it  will  give  you  new  plants 
 all  day  long  however  hello  true 
 gardeners  welcome  back  we  are  talking 
 quarter  lines  today  I  get  so  many 
 questions  about  quarter  lines  on  that 
 quarterline  video  I  will  be  sure  to  link 
 it  down  below  because  whatever  I  miss 
 here  today  I'm  sure  I  cover  it  in  that 
 video  I  love  love  love  love  love  quarter 
 lines  I  use  them  in  so  many  Gardens  I 
 have  them  all  around  my  house  because 
 there's  so  many  different  varieties  that 
 you  can  choose  from  you  got  Sun  quarter 
 lines  you  got  shade  quarter  lines  you 
 got  anything  quarter  lines  they  work 
 everywhere  so  I  am  going  to  talk  about 
 these  particular  ones  right  now  and  then 
 we're  going  to  move  over  to  a  different 
 variety  but  these  here  are  called  anti- 
 L  um  these  guys  have  been  in  this  ground 
 for  oh  my  goodness  I'm  so  bad  at  time 
 six  seven  years  um  a  good  long  while  and 
 it's  also  what  I  call  my  collection 
 group  so  I  tend  to  trim  my  quarter  lines 
 and  find  a  place  in  my  garden  and  farm 
 the  clippings  tell  you  about  that  in  a 
 minute  first  of  all  this  is  all  three 
 plants  well  three  plants  and  clippings 
 throughout  the  year  look  at  this  color 
 variation  in  this  plant  I  mean  just 
 absolutely  stunning  I  mean  these  this 
 burgundy  in  this  Leaf  is  so  so  beautiful 
 now  this  is  a  West  Sun  location  so  this 
 is  this  gets  good  afternoon  sun  uh  for 
 my  garden  and  so  you  can  tell  right  off 
 the  tips  that  we  have  some  Browning 
 going  on  we've  had  a  severely  hot  winter 
 if  you  cannot  tell  from  the  melting  in 
 front  of  you  um  this  is  just  we  are  at 
 98  degre  today  and  we  feel  every  ounce 
 of  it  but  this  is  what  happens  to  them 
 when  it  gets  too  hot  now  but  don't  worry 
 because  the  rest  of  the  year  they're 
 gorgeous  and  beautiful  just  like  this 
 dark  burgundy  coloring  that  you  see  here 
 in  the  middle  so  they're  worth  it  put 
 them  in  the  sun  they  can  take  it  they  do 
 prefer  love  love  love  anything  that 
 gives  them  a  little  bit  of  filter  light 
 or  protection  east  side  of  the  yard 
 north  side  of  the  yard  they  love  Morning 
 Sun  midday  sun  to  early  afternoon  sun 
 once  you  get  into  this  late  afternoon 
 sun  and  Bryon  and  I  were  filming  around 
 6  o'clock  in  the  evening  yeah  so  they're 
 these  guys  get  the  The  Brute  of  our 
 summer  Florida  heat  I  fertilize  these 
 guys  with  8212  Palm  fertilizer  they 
 really  really  love  that  mix  that  keeps 
 them  nice  and  strong  and  you  want  a 
 strong  um  plant  especially  if  you're 
 going  to  allow  this  collection  to  get 
 tall  like  I'm  allowing  mine  to  get 
 because  that  wind  catches  them  and  it 
 can  blow  them  over  pretty  easy  so  you 
 want  them  to  have  good  strong  stems 
 holds  them  in  place  we  get  some  severe 
 weather  where  some  sometimes  our  palms 
 will  get  damaged  but  these  guys  hold  up 
 like  a  champ  what  I  love  about  these 
 plants  kind  of  what  I  mentioned  in  my 
 video  about  two  years  ago  is  that  they 
 pay  rent  so  this  is  a  plant  that 
 reproduces  it  will  give  you  new  plants 
 all  day  long  however  it  doesn't  do  it  by 
 popping  up  little  pups  everywhere  which 
 a  lot  of  people  and  myself  can  be  very 
 offended  by  I  like  a  plant  to  stay  where 
 you  plant  it  this  plant  does  that 
 however  it  continues  to  grow  taller  and 
 taller  and  taller  and  a  lot  of  times 
 people  will  allow  the  plant  to  get 
 beautiful  and  tall  and  the  top  six  foot 
 of  it  is  absolutely  stunning  and 
 gorgeous  but  the  bottom  four  or  five 
 feet  is  nothing  but  a  woody  trunk  and 
 it's  ugly  and  they  don't  kind  of  don't 
 know  how  to  um  combat  that  and  they 
 don't  want  to  cut  it  down  because 
 obviously  the  beauty  at  the  top  not  the 
 bottom  so  what  you  do  one  time  a  year 
 you  trim  the  tallest  of  the  stock  so  see 
 we  how  we  how  we  have  a  layering  effect 
 here  we've  got  lower  lower  color  down 
 below  that's  camouflaging  the  trunk  of 
 this  guy  but  if  you  pull  these  babies 
 away  what  you  see  is  this  big  ugly  trunk 
 not  attractive  right  so  what  I  do  as  you 
 can  see  I  have  a  cutting  here  that  I  cut 
 probably  a  couple  years  ago  and  then 
 where  I  cut  cut  it  I  kind  of  take  my  my 
 felos  and  then  I  take  it  and  I  shave 
 right  next  to  where  I  cut  it  and  then 
 when  you  shave  that  area  that's  where 
 your  next  head's  going  to  pop  out  so 
 we've  got  two  heads  from  this  one 
 cutting  and  that's  what  it  offers  and 
 then  back  behind  here  you'll  notice  that 
 that's  happened  multiple  times  and 
 that's  what  makes  this  plant  thick  and 
 beautiful  with  multi-  trunks  again  here 
 we  have  it  look  at  this  you  guys  so  this 
 is  a  cutting  here  that  probably  happened 
 to  your  so  ago  and  now  well  maybe  not  a 
 year  ago  because  these  are  kind  of  still 
 young  so  this  may  have  been  six  months 
 ago  and  look  at  how  beautiful  we've  got 
 three  new  heads  coming  from  that  one 
 cutting  and  that's  all  you  have  to  do 
 you  have  to  find  out  where  you  want  the 
 plant  where  you  have  a  bald  spot  cut  it 
 there  new  heads  will  pop  up  from  that 
 that  spot  so  you'll  never  have  a  bald 
 spot  in  your  plants  and  it's  so  easy  to 
 do  because  you're  not  doing  that  once  a 
 week  or  once  a  month  or  every  two  months 
 you're  doing  that  maybe  every  6  to  8 
 months  or  a  year  I  mean  so  what  I'll 
 come  through  is  I'll  I'll  see  something 
 like  this  it's  like  oh  this  is  kind  of 
 taking  over  the  spot  here  let  me  cut 
 this  guy  right  down  here  and  let  it  fill 
 out  here  and  that's  all  it  is  imagine  if 
 you're  forming  a  bouquet  and  you're 
 looking  at  that  bouquet  and  you're 
 saying  I  don't  like  this  is  a  bald  spot 
 right  here  all  you  do  is  you  trim  right 
 where  that  is  let  it  fluff  out  and  this 
 is  not  it  doesn't  take  time  it  takes 
 about  3  months  before  you  start  to  see 
 those  new  heads  pop  out  and  then  they 
 just  pop  out  and  there're  there  for 
 years  so  um  I  I  think  that  this  is  a 
 fantastic  plant  to  work  with  as  long  as 
 you  kind  of  know  the  insights  of  what  um 
 what  it  takes  to  keep  it  beautiful  and 
 it's  that  way  with  that  plant  and  it's 
 that  way  with  several  others  so  let  me 
 check  out  let's  check  out  the  other 
 quarter  lines  we  have  here  so  this  is 
 more  of  a  shade  garden  you'll  see  how 
 that  temperature  oh  my  God  Bryce  isn't 
 that  amazing  that  temperature  dips  down 
 so  perfect  so  right  here  right  in  this 
 this  little  Nook  where  you  guys  we  are 
 going  to  stay  here  for  a  while  so  right 
 here  it's  nice  and  Shady  beautiful  color 
 thank  you  right  here  it's  so  nice  and 
 shady  and  these  guys  will  not  if  I  put 
 these  for  one  day  in  that  spot  where  my 
 other  ones  were  these  guys  would 
 completely  melt  disappear  on  me  and  not 
 be  happy  this  is  about  as  much  light  as 
 they  they  like  to  get  they  like  to  get 
 this  little  filtered  sunlight  that  you 
 see  through  here  and  that  really  helps 
 their  coloring  they  do  not  want  full 
 shade  but  they  do  not  want  full  sun  so 
 they're  more  of  an  intermediate  accent 
 so  they  want  something  right  in  the 
 middle  so  putting  them  underneath  these 
 Chinese  fan  palms  and  above  these 
 Chinese  fan  Palms  are  fox  tail  palms 
 that  is  the  perfect  bit  of  protection 
 for  this  particular  plant  grouping  so 
 these  are  harleyquinn  quarter  lines  and 
 they  do  the  exact  same  thing  you  guys 
 they  absolutely  fill  in  this  spot  do  a 
 gorgeous  job  of  kind  of  giving  me  color 
 where  I  want  it  so  what  I'm  looking  for 
 is  um  I'm  looking  for  a  dead  spot  in  the 
 garden  so  say  this  one  right  here  right 
 now  I'm  going  to  leave  it  tall  because 
 all  it  is  is  covering  a  big  gap  in  my 
 garden  and  you  guys  know  how  I  feel 
 about  gaps  so  we're  going  to  leave  this 
 guy  here  or  else  I  would  take  these  guys 
 I  would  nip  it  right  here  so  the  head 
 would  now  come  out  back  here  but  because 
 I  need  it  in  this  spot  I'm  going  to 
 leave  it  in  that  place  and  let  it  fill 
 out  just  like  this  one  is  getting  big  so 
 as  soon  as  this  one  gets  big  and  fills 
 that  spot  then  it's  time  to  nip  this  guy 
 and  what  all  I  would  do  is  I  would  take 
 him  after  cutting  him  and  then  I  would 
 put  him  right  in  front  down  below  here 
 and  let  him  start  to  be  the  young  one 
 all  over  again  a  little  extra  water  for 
 the  first  30  days  they  start  to  root  in 
 and  then  voila  you  have  new  quarter  line 
 that's  getting  ready  to  pop  and  give  you 
 new  pups  so  um  that's  that  that's  the 
 ideal  way  to  trim  quarter  lines  now  I'm 
 going  to  take  you  cuz  you  guys  are  my 
 people  over  to  a  shameful  spot  in  my 
 garden  this  is  a  spot  where  quarter 
 lines  sometimes  go  to  die  because  I  I 
 I'm  a  busy  person  but  if  I  see  quarter 
 lines  and  it's  time  for  me  to  trim  but  I 
 don't  don't  have  time  to  put  them  in  a 
 spot  I  collect  them 
 trimmed  if  I  can  put  them  in  water  I 
 do  but  I'm  going  to  show  you  how  easy  it 
 is  now  look  at  these  guys  these  guys 
 have  dried  out  this  was  last  weekend  it 
 is  now  Saturday  again  I  have  not  had  a 
 chance  to  get  to  my  quarter  lines  but 
 all  I'm  going  to  do  is  I'm  going  to  trim 
 this  guy  it's  still  a  week  later  still 
 has  nice  good  color  to  it  I'm  going  to 
 take  this  guy  and  I'm  going  to  just  kind 
 of  do  this  with  leaves  here  and  then  I'm 
 going  to  put  him  in  this  spot  that  I 
 want  to  have  a  little  bit  of  a  filtered 
 color  grouping  and  I'm  going  to  stick 
 him  right  in  the  ground  there  I  have 
 moisture  in  the  ground  look  at  how  moist 
 that  ground  is  from  all  the  other  plants 
 now  he's  going  to  grow  up  and  be  another 
 anti  just  like  those  plants  over  there 
 and  that's  as  easy  as  it  is  why  I  didn't 
 do  that  last  Saturday  please  don't  judge 
 me  but  you  know  that's  that's  a  gardener 
 life  so  you  guys  um  plant  these  guys  if 
 you 
 do  because  I'm  a  quarter  Line  fan  please 
 let  me  know  in  the  comments  down  below 
 that  you  picked  up  a  quarterline  you  put 
 it  in  the  ground  and  you're  starting 
 your  quarterline  journey  because  that's 
 kind  of  cooline  family  BR  Go's 
 quarterline  family  all  right  you  guys 
 thank  you  so  much  for  visiting  with  me  I 
 hope  this  video  helped  become  a  um  a 
 shopping  list  kind  of  video  to  where  you 
 can  determine  if  it's  a  plant  or  tree 
 that  you're  going  to  incorporate  in  your 
 very  own  garden  or  not  you  know  if  it 
 made  the  cut  or  didn't  make  the  cut  but 
 thank  you  so  much  please  comment  if  it 
 helped  you  down  below  because  that  is 
 super  super  cool  and  if  you  like  this 
 kind  of  kind  of  vibe  if  this  is  you  know 
 kind  of  your  thing  and  you  like  these 
 helpful  tips  then  please  subscribe  and 
 like  it  helps  my  channel  so  much  and  I 
 appreciate  you  guys  and  I  appreciate 
 making  these  videos  with  Bryce  and 
 sharing  them  with  you  guys  all  because 
 we  all  want  to  get  out  in  the  garden  and 
 uh  you  know  and  have  a  beautiful  place 
 to  live  so  thank  you  bye-bye  nice

---

 so  hey  you  guys  hear  that  that  is  the 
 sound  of  a  finished  waterfall  I  wanted 
 to  share  with  you  guys  some  tips  that  I 
 have  learned  along  the  way  as  being  a 
 waterfall  Builder  um  something  that  I 
 think  would  have  been  super  helpful  for 
 me  years  ago  when  I  started  this  trade 
 so  hopefully  I  can  demystify  some  things 
 if  you're  looking  to  create  a 
 naturalistic  waterfall  something  that 
 really  is  just  um  you  know  just  sets  off 
 your  backyard  or  maybe  a  little 
 Courtyard  front  entrance  way  um  that  you 
 want  to  make  it  look  like  it  you  know 
 not  like  it  just  popped  up  out  of 
 nowhere  but  make  it  look  like  it's  part 
 of  the  garden  that  I'm  hoping  these  tips 
 are  going  to  help  you  guys  now  I  know 
 this  feature  right  here  that  we  just 
 finished  is  a  much  bigger  feature  than 
 you  might  be  working  with  in  your  own 
 house  but  the  fundamentals  are  the  same 
 my  waterfall  in  my  backyard  which  is 
 much  smaller  all  of  the  top  sections 
 were  done  by  hand  with  smaller  Boulders 
 so  it's  the  same  concept  but  I  we're 
 here  today  so  I  thought  I  would  just  go 
 through  these  tips  for  you  guys  and 
 hopes  that  that  kind  of  it  helps  you 
 create  that  look  for  your  s  so  tip 
 number  one  which  sounds  simple  but  super 
 important  so  when  you're  um  building 
 your  waterfall  feature  you're  going  to 
 dig  out  your  Basin  that's  where  you're 
 going  to  start  you're  going  to  dig  out 
 the  hole  or  the  Basin  area  for  where  the 
 water  is  going  to  collect  whatever 
 company  that  you  work  with  we're 
 aquascapes  contractors  so  we  use 
 aquascapes  products  but  there's  so  many 
 different  varieties  of  products 
 depending  on  your  your  budget  so  you're 
 going  to  dig  this  area  out  quite  nice 
 and  large  you're  going  to  take  all  of 
 that  soil  and  you're  going  to  use  it  to 
 build  your  waterfall  90%  of  the  time  no 
 matter  how  small  your  waterfall  that  is 
 not  enough  soil  for  you  to  use  um  you 
 need  to  bring  in  enough  dirt  where  your 
 waterfall  area  doesn't  not  look  like  a 
 teepee  does  not  look  more  like  this  kind 
 of  structure  you  kind  of  want  it  to  look 
 like  an  oversized  mound  of  uh  like  an 
 antill  um  more  like  Florida  anthills  you 
 know  like  they're  just  gravitas  you  know 
 triple  story  an  Hills  you  want  to  make 
 sure  that  you  have  enough  where  you  can 
 really  Mound  it  out  on  the  sides  and 
 feather  it  out  and  go  into  a  natural 
 grade  so  kind  of  like  um  you  know  just 
 just  a  rounded  State  and  then  you  want 
 to  take  wherever  that  waterfall  wherever 
 the  Viewpoint  is  where  whatever  the 
 middle  of  that  area  is  you  want  to  carve 
 the  middle  of  that  area  out  just  like  we 
 did  here  so  this  is  our  big  giant  antill 
 here  and  um  all  we  did  was  you  know 
 feather  it  down  on  both  sides  and  then 
 we  took  the  middle  of  that  the  area  that 
 we  wanted  to  focus  on  and  we  built  a 
 channel  in  the  middle  so  we  started 
 carving  that  middle  section  out  and 
 insetting  our  Boulders  you  wherever 
 you're  starting  from  the  top  there  that 
 you  have  enough  kind  of  framework  around 
 to  kind  of  create  an  inset  Boulders  just 
 to  frame  where  that  water  is  going  to  go 
 that  way  this  has  a  nice  deep  line  now 
 you  see  that  the  boulders  that  we  used 
 at  the  top  they're  only  you  know  they're 
 handheld  Boulders  they're  Boulders  that 
 you  can  pick  up  and  and  move  those  right 
 there  are  holding  water  in  so  so  we  have 
 the  liner  wrapped  inside  those  those 
 Boulders  into  the  outside  of  those 
 Boulders  kind  of  pinned  there  with  um 
 with  mulch  so  they're  kind  of  tucking  in 
 creating  a  wall  for  that  water  to  go  in 
 but  you  see  where  the  water  line  is  it's 
 it's  you  know  not  even  halfway  up  those 
 Boulder  lines  before  it  falls  what  you 
 want  to  make  sure  when  you're  creating 
 that  wall  you  naturally  want  to  do  a 
 straight  wall  of  course  but  for  a  pitch 
 for  for  water  to  move  you  definitely 
 want  that  first  tier  especially  the 
 first  tier  to  have  a  nice  angled  pitch 
 you  don't  want  it  to  be  like  this 
 because  the  last  thing  you  want  to  do  is 
 you  want  you  don't  want  your  water  to 
 come  from  here  and  then  back  flow  into 
 these  Corners  you  want  it  naturally  to 
 tilt  forward  so  water  comes  here  and 
 wants  to  go  this  direction  cuz  water 
 will  move  fast  and  then  it  it  won't  have 
 time  by  the  time  it  starts  collecting 
 it'll  kind  of  go  into  different  areas  so 
 we  didn't  want  it  to  go  back  into  those 
 Corners  we  wanted  it  to  flow  first  and 
 the  same  thing  happens  with  every  single 
 tier  so  as  we  get  in  here  that's  there's 
 a  higher  level  there  and  then  it's  a 
 smaller  or  lower  level  here  and 
 everything  is  pitched  forward  down  to 
 this  gigantic  final  tier  this  Boulder 
 tips  forward  to  create  that  same  kind  of 
 look  now  in  this  particular  house  or 
 this  particular  water  feature  my  client 
 wanted  a  heavy  amount  of  sound  so  we 
 have  pools  of  water  sitting  here 
 normally  this  would  flow  into  just  Stone 
 there'd  be  a  tad  bit  of  water  in  the 
 stone  but  not  much  not  like  a  pooling 
 area  but  she  wanted  to  you  know  bring  in 
 birds  and  really  have  some  serious 
 sounds  so  we  have  a  thick  layer  of  water 
 everywhere  but  you  can  do  the  exact 
 opposite  you  can  do  a  very  sheet  style 
 waterfall  where  it  moves  so  fast  that  it 
 doesn't  have  time  to  pull  you  don't  have 
 to  have  these  Pockets  I  personally  like 
 the  look  of  them  but  to  each  his  own 
 it's  really  up  to  you  you  can  do  it  both 
 ways  the  next  thing  that  I  would  suggest 
 um  is  to  mix  your  Stones  mix  your 
 Boulders  um  many  times  I'll  see  where 
 people  will  do  all  the  same  size  Stone 
 you  know  even  if  it's  handheld  Stone 
 like  this  I'll  see  them  just  do  that  all 
 with  one  one  size  stone  that  looks  very 
 very  man-made  if  you  can  pocket  some 
 bigger  stones  in  there  great  if  you  can 
 pocket  um  only  certain  sides  like  if 
 it's  only  something  that  you're  kind  of 
 carrying  in  from  from  your  front  yard  or 
 your  backyard  by  yourself  then  make  sure 
 you  bring  in  smaller  Stones  than  that  to 
 make  sure  that  you  know  you  have  some 
 mix  and  match  it  it  matters  so  much  you 
 can  see  the  variation  of  different 
 Stones  so  here  we  have  the  river  Jacks 
 here  and  then  we  mixed  in  with  a  little 
 bigger  um  Tennessee  Field  Stone  and  then 
 we  have  you  know  look  at  the  the 
 difference  between  I  mean  this  giant 
 boulder  that  we're  sitting  on  this  is 
 our  frame  rock  this  is  our  what  we  call 
 the  destination  rock  this  is  the  rock 
 that  we  sit  and  relax  on  um  we  do  this 
 often  and  we'll  do  this  usually  more  so 
 at  the  bottom  to  kind  of  create  kind  of 
 a  standing  point  when  you're  enjoying 
 the  water  feature  or  a  sitting  point  and 
 if  you  can  do  that  and  mix  and  match 
 your  Stones  it  just  makes  for  a  natural 
 waterfall  no  matter  you  know  what  sizes 
 you're  working  with  just  mix  and  match 
 when  I  started  doing  this  I  you  know  I 
 always  like  the  look  of  stone  wrapping 
 around  a  water  feature  because  I  think 
 it  kind  of  gives  you  a  nice  clean  Edge 
 all  the  way  around  so  I  would  wrap  it 
 with  um  like  a  white  river  rock  or  brown 
 river  rock  all  the  way  around  the  water 
 feature  making  it  look  like  I  put  a 
 String  of  Pearls  around  you  know 
 Boulders  and  and  the  waterfall  and  it 
 just  it  just  did  not  just  didn't  work  so 
 if  you  can  mix  and  match  the  elements 
 there  so  right  at  the  bottom  here  we 
 have  a  smaller  white  Alabama  River  Rock 
 and  then  it  goes  into  a  bigger  white 
 Alabama  River  Rock  in  the  Basin  where  I 
 needed  to  make  sure  that  I  that  water 
 didn't  move  the  Rock  in  any  kind  of  way 
 and  then  you  guys  will  see  the  river 
 Jacks  dispersed  in  key  areas  that  are 
 right  through  here  I  mean  that  just  just 
 that  little  bit  of  touch  now  that  was 
 done  on  purpose  just  to  hold  water  from 
 from  um  moving  the  dirt  down  below  so 
 just  retaining  that  soil  there  and  um 
 and  then  I'll  use  mulch  and  plants  to  do 
 the  rest  of  it  like  I  love  these  golden 
 Sedum  now  these  guys  are  going  to 
 encroach  right  into  these  corners  and 
 flow  right  in  to  touch  that  water  and 
 it's  going  to  really  soften  those  edges 
 so  I've  done  that  with  poos  Vines  I've 
 done  that  with  these  guys  I've  done  that 
 with  um  creeping  Fus  um  on  um  running  on 
 Boulders  and  that's  just  a  great  way  to 
 naturalize  the  look  so  um  if  you  can 
 kind  of  just  tuck  in  your  your  plants 
 and  your  trees  to  kind  of  overgrow  into 
 that  and  this  particular  case  we  ended 
 up  doing  a  a  potted  planting  area  within 
 the  waterfall  and  kind  of  create  just  to 
 create  more  sound  but  also  to  add  in  a 
 you  know  a  tropical  plant  um  that  is 
 going  to  be  a  gorgeous  feature 
 especially  as  it  blooms  but  this  is  a 
 giant  Apostle  Iris  just  to  kind  of  give 
 us  a  little  crowning  effect  on  this 
 corner  and  I  think  it  turned  out 
 stunning  and  I  started  doing  this  a 
 couple  years  ago  if  you  have  an 
 irrigation  system  it  makes  it  so  nice 
 and  easy  because  obviously  we're  in 
 Florida  here  we  have  evaporation  run  a 
 little  bubbler  line  underneath  your  rock 
 into  this  Basin  and  that  way  every  time 
 your  sprinkler  system  comes  on  it  just 
 adds  a  little  bit  of  water  to  it  if  you 
 do  that  then  it  you  won't  even  have  to 
 worry  about  adding  any  kind  of  water  to 
 it  during  those  windy  and  and  um  heavily 
 sunny  days  so  um  I  found  that  to  be 
 super  super  effective  for  kind  of  just 
 topping  off  your  water  feature  ever  so 
 often  and  lastly  um  you  know  I  I  hear 
 this  this  myth  all  the  time  and  this 
 worry  that  people  have  where  um  I'd  love 
 to  have  a  water  feature  in  my  front  by 
 entrance  way  or  my  back  area  where  we 
 relax  but  the  last  thing  I  want  to  do  is 
 invite  um  just  mosquitoes  you  know 
 breeding  mosquitoes  into  um  into  sitting 
 water  and  that's  absolutely  a  concern  I 
 have  seen  bird  basss  you  know  that  have 
 it  you  know  um  areas  things  with  small 
 pumps  that  where  water  is  not  moving 
 that  can  absolutely  happen  but  in  cases 
 like  this  where  you  have  an  aggressive 
 amount  of  moving  water  you  don't  have 
 any  sitting  Pockets  um  you're  going  to 
 have  less  chance  of  any  kind  of  mosquito 
 Lar  or  anything  like  that  happening  in 
 this  type  of  water  feature  now  if  you  do 
 one  that  like  I  mentioned  earlier  that 
 where  the  water  flows  right  into  the 
 stone  then  you're  going  to  have  no 
 chance  of  it  because  there's  no  sitting 
 water  at  all  you  just  have  a  little 
 pocket  and  then  it  goes  right  into  the 
 stone  and  recirculates  back  up  to  the 
 Head  this  area  has  a  little  bit  more 
 sitting  water  but  to  combat  that  worry 
 we  put  in  two  pumps  on  this  particular 
 feature  so  we  have  a  pump  in  that  pot 
 that  also  flows  in  that  little  pool  of 
 water  to  push  that  water  for  forward  so 
 as  long  as  your  water  is  moving  then 
 you're  not  going  to  have  any  mosquito 
 problems  they're  looking  for  still  water 
 so  I  you  know  I  hope  that  helps  I  hope 
 that  um  you  know  gives  you  guys  some 
 insight  on  kind  of  creating  a  more 
 naturalistic  look  for  your  water 
 features  because  they're  a  gorgeous 
 thing  to  add  into  your  garden  they're 
 the  perfect  thing  even  if  you're  just 
 putting  a  little  one  in  a  pocket  area 
 right  by  your  front  door  oh  my  gosh 
 they're  just  having  a  sound  of  water 
 brings  you  outside  so  much  so  I  love 
 that  if  you  guys  would  like  any  more 
 information  then  feel  free  to  reach  out 
 to  us  on  uh  water  features  custom 
 Aquatics  Brad  and  Adam  are  fantastic 
 over  you're  in  the  Melbourne  area 
 they're  fabulous  to  work  with  I'll  be 
 sure  to  link  their  information  down 
 below  they  helped  us  with  this  water 
 feature  as  well  and  just  the  Artistry 
 and  the  whole  thing  was  just  a  fun  thing 
 to  to  collaborate  on  so  anyway  you  guys 
 I  hope  this  video  helps  and  I  will  see 
 you  in  the  next  one  take  care

---

 well  hello  gardeners  welcome  back  so  we 
 are  in  Viro  Beach  Florida  Zone  10A  for 
 another  fantastic  outdoor  backyard 
 garden  tour  so  grab  your  cup  of  coffee 
 or  Depending  on  time  of  day  your  glass 
 of  wine  and  Bryce  and  I  are  going  to 
 walk  through  this  Garden  do  the  same 
 things  that  that  we  always  like  to  do 
 for  you  guys  we're  going  to  talk  about 
 the  plants  and  the  trees  Bryce  Bryce 
 will  be  sure  to  stick  the  zones  Down 
 Below  on  the  screen  for  you  guys  so  you 
 know  exactly  what  you're  working  with 
 and  where  you're  working  with  it  at  um 
 and  then  um  I'm  just  going  to  kind  of 
 you  know  go  into  a  little  bit  of  detail 
 on  the  plants  and  trees  so  that  way  you 
 guys  hopefully  just  don't  walk  away  with 
 some  inspiration  but  if  this  is 
 something  that  you're  looking  to  create 
 in  your  own  space  then  you  kind  of  have 
 a  a  nice  little  overall  shopping  list  to 
 work  with  something  that  you  can  really 
 just  you  know  grab  a  hold  of  and  and 
 take  to  your  nurseries  and  uh  and  get 
 started  planting  so  uh  for  those  of  you 
 guys  who  don't  know  me  or  maybe  new  to 
 this  channel  my  name  is  Jennifer  beevans 
 I  am  a  landscape  designer  here  in  Vero 
 Beach  Florida  of  25  years  um  we  own 
 construction  landscape  and  we  have  a 
 business  that  does  just  this  kind  of 
 thing  it  creates  outdoor  spaces  creates 
 tropical  Retreats  for  people  and  and 
 solves  problems  um  like  we  did  here  um 
 in  this  particular  space  Bryce  just  kind 
 of  get  a  give  get  a  kind  of  panoramic  so 
 everybody  can  really  kind  of  see  what 
 we're  working  with  I  cannot  wait  to  to 
 just  walk  through  this  beautiful  garden 
 together  um  but  we  had  a  couple 
 different  problems  that  we  had  to  to 
 kind  of  work  through  in  this  this  space 
 now  they  my  clients  Michelle  and  Guy 
 created  this  beautiful  outdoor  patio 
 area  which  to  me  is  like  a  resort  in 
 itself  you  know  this  is  like  a  living 
 area  that  I  would  never  ever  want  to 
 leave  but  when  they  were  done  with 
 construction  it  pretty  much  just  um  it 
 left  it  just  unfinished  they  felt  you 
 know  they're  they're  enjoying  the  space 
 they're  all  sitting  here  together  and 
 they're  looking  out  at  what's  pretty 
 much  a  field  um  when  I  first  got  here  so 
 it  was  a  zeroscape  a  blank  canvas  which 
 I  don't  get  to  work  very  often  so 
 honestly  it  was  like  a  dream  for  me  but 
 their  second  problem  was  noise  I  mean 
 they  could  actually  and  we  were  sitting 
 here  talking  when  we  were  kind  of  going 
 through  some  ideas  and  they  could  hear  I 
 could  we  could  hear  the  neighbors  right 
 behind  us  talking  and  so  we  knew  that 
 noise  privacy  and  of  course  kind  of 
 nestling  in  this  patio  those  were  three 
 problems  that  we  wanted  to  solve  with 
 this  space  so  not  just  make  it  beautiful 
 but  make  it  you  know  just  just  finish 
 off  the  backyard  area  so  I'm  going  to 
 show  you  guys  what  we  did  for  that 
 because  if  you're  looking  to  create 
 privacy  in  your  space  you  might  want  to 
 check  out  these  plants  and  trees  because 
 these  layers  the  way  they're  going  to 
 come  together  in  time  are  going  to  do 
 just  that  so  so  let's  get  started  we'll 
 jump  right  in  so  here  we  are  you  guys  um 
 I  I'll  just  Bry  do  a  quick  panoramic  of 
 this  area  that  way  we're  kind  of  looking 
 at  what  we're  what  we're  working  with 
 and  you  guys  can  see  that  we  did  focus 
 in  on  what  I  would  consider  If  This  Were 
 a  normal  backyard  space  it  would 
 probably  take  up  most  of  the  back 
 backyard  but  we  didn't  go  into  any  of 
 their  you  know  they  have  just  an 
 extensive  amount  of  property  which  is 
 fabulous  but  most  of  us  just  don't  have 
 that  to  work  with  so  um  what  I  did 
 choose  to  do  was  bring  the  main  focal 
 point  the  main  feature  right  by  the 
 seating  section  right  by  um  right  by 
 their  ey  line  something  that's  going  to 
 draw  them  out  and  speaking  of  drawing 
 them  out  we  did  a  pathway  off  of  a 
 pathway  which  I  love  to  do  um  I  have  the 
 gray  Granite  here  and  we  inset  some 
 beautiful  Stepping  Stones  um  I  just  love 
 this  gray  contrast  of  look  they  had  a 
 little  bit  of  gray  in  their  existing  um 
 Chicago  brick  so  we  just  kind  of 
 continue  that  onto  this  area  I  wanted  to 
 make  sure  that  this  Stone  started  right 
 from  the  patio  itself  because  if  you 
 guys  have  done  landscaping  and  you  have 
 a  screen  room  just  like  this  anytime  you 
 can  do  stone  or  even  if  it's  a  clean 
 mulch  bed  right  up  against  the  patio 
 that  just  prevents  the  mowers  from 
 getting  anywhere  near  this  area  throwing 
 dust  all  over  these  screens  so  that  was 
 a  significant  problem  because  they  just 
 had  so  much  grass  here  just  having  this 
 clean  area  really  eliminated  any  kind  of 
 just  constant  screen  maintenance  on  this 
 area  and  it  protects  the  screens  from  as 
 you  guys  know  weed  eaters  so  we  have  a 
 lovely  pathway  that  leads  right  into 
 this  area  um  we  use  the  aluminum  alloy 
 edging  to  separate  the  different  ground 
 covers  so  we  have  mulch  here  we  have  the 
 gray  Granite  here  and  then  we  have  the 
 white  uh  River  Rock  here  here  and  this 
 is  the  Alabama  white  which  I  really 
 really  like  um  but  you  guys  I  did  an 
 edging  video  this  is  what  I  meant  when  I 
 said  um  in  my  previous  video  I'll  get 
 Bryce  to  stick  it  up  here  what  why  what 
 edging  I  like  to  use  for  what  things  I 
 love  the  aluminum  alloy  edging  for 
 dividing  stones  or  dividing  Stone  from 
 mulch  but  not  so  much  for  dividing  mulch 
 or  um  mulch  from  uh  grass  because  you 
 know  the  mowers  come  through  like  the 
 Wild  West  in  a  lot  of  these  developments 
 so  having  a  mower  hit  this  edging  is  not 
 you  know  it's  not  as  easy  I  use  the 
 butaa  edging  for  that  buta  edging  is 
 just  tough  and  durable  and  it  gives  us 
 still  a  nice  streamline  look  so  I'll  be 
 sure  to  put  that  link  down  below  but 
 this  area  right  here  leads  right  into 
 Problem  Solver  number  one  problem  number 
 one  for  my  clients  were 
 uh  sound  carries  here  I  don't  know  what 
 it  is  the  house  is  not  right  up  next  to 
 their  property  it  is  a  good  distance 
 away  but  we  would  literally  be  sitting 
 here  having  a  conversation  discussing 
 their  landscape  and  we  could  hear  a 
 phone  call  conversation  right  behind 
 them  and  she's  like  see  see  I  told  you 
 it's  like  that  which  was  even  a  surprise 
 to  me  because  I  deal  with  a  lot  of  my 
 clients  just  like  my  own  home  where  the 
 the  houses  neighbor  up  around  right 
 around  you  you  know  it's  it's  in  the 
 vicinity  like  you  can  see  or  throw  a 
 stone  to  the  house  next  door  so  I  can 
 understand  hearing  um  a  lot  of 
 conversation  that  way  but  but  um  at  such 
 a  distance  it  was  kind  of  surprising  to 
 me  how  much  it  carries  over  a  blank 
 field  and  that's  exactly  what  they  kind 
 of  had  to  work  with  here  there  was  not  a 
 lot  of  landscaping  in  this  area  other 
 than  the  outside  perimeter  buffers  this 
 was  pretty  open  so  sound  totally  carried 
 so  the  first  thing  that  we  did  was 
 discussed  putting  in  a  water  feature  and 
 um  you  know  I  know  this  is  a  bit  grander 
 than  um  that  many  of  us  put  in  even  in 
 my  own  backyard  I'm  absolutely  in  loveed 
 with  this  water  feature  I  love  the  sound 
 is  offering  I  feel  like  I  have  to  yell 
 because  it's  just  so  much  sound  back 
 here  this  is  your  pondless  water  feature 
 with  a  kind  of  a  pond  which  is  you  know 
 not  the  normal  way  we  do  it  but  I  love 
 the  way  that  this  this  Falls  from  one 
 little  water  beached  area  to  the  next 
 little  pooling  area  you  know  you  have 
 several  waterf  on  water  which  to  me 
 makes  so  much  more  noise  than  water 
 splashing  right  into  rock  and 
 disappearing  so  since  our  goal  was 
 really  to  create  um  sound  on  sound  um 
 and  kind  of  create  more  of  a  white  noise 
 back  here  that's  exactly  what  we  chose 
 to  do  we  chose  to  leave  pools  um 
 throughout  the  whole  waterfall  and  I 
 think  it  turned  out  great  on  this 
 particular  feature  we  are  partnered  with 
 Florida  custom  Aquatics  um  they  are  also 
 a  certified  aquascapes  contractors  and 
 we  all  have  a  network  together  where 
 many  of  times  we'll  work  with  each  other 
 on  different  projects  in  our  areas  to 
 kind  of  really  get  a  different  artistic 
 eye  and  it  was  fabulous  is  working  with 
 Brad  and  Adam  to  um  to  create  this 
 feature  because  I  think  that  um  just  the 
 combination  of  what  we  wanted  to  achieve 
 here  was  really  great  playing  off  of 
 each  other  and  they  created  a  gorgeous 
 gorgeous  fall  I  mean  I'm  just  in  love 
 with  the  The  Rock  Choice  I  mean  look  at 
 the  size  of  this  thing  you  guys  I  mean 
 this  is  fabulous  so  our  excavator  is 
 huge  cuz  you  know  guys  when  they  buy 
 Machinery  like  my  husband  oversize 
 everything  with  their  machines  and  we 
 had  trouble  getting  this  guy  in  here 
 Brad  and  Adam  were  really  balancing  um 
 getting  this  big  old  rock  in  here  and  we 
 knew  that  once  it  got  here  we  were 
 hoping  and  praying  fingers  crossed  that 
 it  was  going  to  fit  this  spot  perfectly 
 because  it  wasn't  coming  back  out  and  um 
 fortunately  enough  it  worked  so  it  um  it 
 really  did  do  a  nice  job  of  anchoring 
 this  so  um  I'm  in  love  with  how  this 
 comes  out  it  curves  around  there's  a 
 Spillway  there  it  drops  into  a  couple 
 Falls  here  I  love  how  this  back  spot 
 here  looks  like  it's  kind  of  eroded  and 
 the  water  is  just  kind  of  pushing  right 
 down  that  corner  dropping  here  we  wanted 
 just  a  little  bit  more  sound  so  we 
 brought  in  a  little  ear  there  and  um 
 made  a  little  Spillway  there  just  to 
 give  an  extra  sound  of  water  splashing 
 and  then  put  a  giant  Apostle  Iris  right 
 in  the  middle  as  like  a  little  crowning 
 effect  so  um  I  just  think  it's  I  think 
 it  turned  out 
 lovely  nice  bit  of  different  variations 
 of  material  this  is  Tennessee  Field 
 Stone  we  have  River  Jacks  right  there  I 
 love  how  that  holds  that  corner  in  we 
 knew  that  was  going  to  be  a  wet  area  as 
 that  was  a  low  spot  for  water  to  travel 
 and  you  know  in  case  we  have  some  heavy 
 rains  but  that's  going  to  do  a  nice  job 
 of  of  anchoring  that  corner  with  weight 
 so  um  so  then  we  have  kind  of  a  same  sit 
 situation  here  with  different  variations 
 of  stone  but  to  me  it's  the  variation  of 
 stone  that  really  does  it  it's  just  like 
 plants  and  trees  you  know  having  those 
 different  levels  or  different  contrasts 
 gosh  it  pulls  everything  together  to 
 give  you  that  kind  of  really  really 
 controlled  but  natural  feel  so  um  one  of 
 your  favorite  water  features  this  is 
 absolutely  yeah  this  absolutely  one  of 
 my  favorites  so  I  uh  if  you  guys  have 
 any  questions  about  it  put  in  the 
 comments  down  below  I'm  also  thinking 
 about  doing  a  waterfall  video  like  a 
 howto  it  doesn't  have  to  be  anything 
 this  elaborate  but  maybe  um  you  know 
 we've  learned  so  many  things  through 
 aquascapes  on  how  to  build  a  realistic 
 feature  instead  of  making  it  TP  shaped 
 you  know  kind  of  some  different 
 techniques  that  you  can  do  with  very 
 very  small  stones  to  create  a  very 
 similar  look  but  with  just  smaller 
 Boulders  if  you  guys  are  interested  in 
 that  let  me  know  and  i'  be  happy  to  put 
 that  together  for  you  so  but  now  for  the 
 Landscaping  part  of  it  which  is  you  know 
 obviously  my  favorite  so  all  right  you 
 guys  so  in  looking  at  this  space  with 
 such  a  big  feature  my  biggest  concern 
 was  having  enough  Landscaping  impact 
 around  it  to  where  the  waterfall  wasn't 
 the  biggest  thing  in  the  in  the  yard  you 
 the  last  thing  you  want  to  see  is  that 
 that's  just  the  big  the  big  jum  giant 
 thing  in  the  yard  and  then  everything 
 else  slopes  off  to  nothing  it  makes  it 
 you  know  there's  no  scale  to  it  so  we 
 brought  in  a  variety  of  tree  layers  so 
 for  right  now  it's  really  it's  very  very 
 young  but  you  can  really  I  want  to  share 
 with  you  kind  of  how  that's  all  going  to 
 grow  in  together  I'm  going  to  start  off 
 with  my  one  of  my  just  favorite  palm 
 trees  of  all  kinds  I'm  going  to  get 
 Bryce  to  put  together  a  bloopers  reel  of 
 all  my  favorites  because  I'm  sure 
 there's  about  a  hundred  of  favorites  I 
 have  but  it  is  up  there  with  one  my 
 favorites  I  absolutely  love  this  tree 
 this  is  a  young  triple  bottle  pal  it 
 will  become  14t  in  no  time  um  they  do 
 grow  you  know  somewhat  slow  but  they  do 
 get  there  they  get  they  grow  about  a 
 foot  to  two  foot  a  year  so  um  and  they 
 also  grow  widthwise  which  is  fabulous 
 when  you  have  a  triple  and  I  know 
 they're  hard  to  come  by  but  if  you  find 
 one  no  matter  how  little  it  is  plant  it 
 because  they  are  just  so  gorgeous  as 
 they  get  bigger  so  this  guy  is  not  in 
 his  prime  of  any  kind  yet  but  soon  he 
 will  be  the  the  those  three  legs  are 
 going  to  really  bow  out  like  this  and 
 that  canopy  is  just  going  to  Arch  this 
 way  and  that  way  and  this  this  Leaf 
 canopy  will  completely  engulf  this  side 
 of  the  water  feature  and  if  you  guys 
 remember  my  water  feature  you  know  I  did 
 the  same  thing  with  my  triple  Spindle 
 Palm  and  it  now  branches  right  over  top 
 of  my  the  end  of  my  water  feature  just 
 like  this  one  will  and  I  absolutely  love 
 that  when  I  see  it  in  the  garden  so  I 
 think  that  this  is  going  to  do  just  that 
 as  it  as  it  matures  so  um  so  this  is 
 kind  of  my  Anchor  Point  this  is  I  kind 
 of  needed  something  here  right  in  the 
 front  that  wouldn't  overtake  or  block 
 Too  Much  from  the  sitting  area  but  have 
 enough  weight  or  impact  that  kind  of 
 gave  us  a  nice  anchor  on  this  corner  so 
 um  so  we  had  more  room  so  we  did  a 
 triple  bottle  p  on  that  side  over  there 
 I  didn't  have  the  room  so  obviously  you 
 can  see  we  needed  some  kind  of  weight  or 
 some  kind  of  structure  on  this  side 
 right  here  so  we  had  to  work  with  a 
 something  smaller  a  fals  sagave  was  the 
 perfect  impact  for  that  side  right  there 
 and  um  that's  kind  of  what  I  mean  about 
 balance  is  you  need  to  really  kind  of 
 work  with  your  with  your  environment  we 
 had  more  room  for  it  to  bow  out  on  this 
 side  so  we  were  able  to  use  something 
 bigger  like  this  uh  triple  bottle  Palm 
 as  far  as  ground  covers  go  this  is  the 
 golden  Dew  or  gold  Mound  and  I've  gotten 
 this  question  a  lot  and  I'm  so  sorry  to 
 confuse  people  golden  Dew  and  gold  Mound 
 are  the  same  plant  golden  Dew  is  what  we 
 used  to  call  them  20  years  ago  um 
 Nursery  have  evolved  and  they  now  call 
 them  gold  Mound  and  then  now  some 
 nurseries  still  call  them  golden  Dew  so 
 I  go  back  and  forth  but  they  are  the 
 same  plant  gold  Mound  golden  Dew  are 
 just  a  nice  beautiful  consistent  low 
 ground  cover  so  um  I  use  them  for  just 
 that  so  this  is  going  to  be  about  2T 
 tall  um  and  then  kind  of  create  a  nice 
 little  swath  of  bright  contrasting  color 
 there  is  a  bloom  on  it  you  guys  but  it's 
 just  it's  pretty  insignificant  it's  a 
 little  purple  Bloom  but  to  me  the  real 
 beauty  is  in  the  color  of  the  leaf 
 because  I  can  pair  it  with  something 
 that  has  dark  tones  like  the  dark  green 
 blue  my  Minds  here  with  those  dark  uh 
 blue  flowers  so  it's  just  to  me  they 
 work  so  well  and  then  you  can  tie  them 
 in  with  something  like  the  dwarf  exor 
 here  that  are  also  had  that  dark  leaf 
 with  dark  beautiful  reddish  orange 
 flowers  so  that  contrast  of  red  orange 
 green  yellow  yellow  green  and  blue  are 
 gorgeous  but  what  these  these  three 
 plants  all  have  in  common  here  is  that 
 they're  not  um 
 aggressive  Growers  so  this  is  a  grouping 
 that  that'll  stay  about  a  foot  and  a 
 half  on  that  corner  by  the  waterfall 
 this  will  get  two  foot  here  so  I  have  a 
 little  perk  of  height  here  but  not  so 
 much  so  that  it  won't  outgrow  these  here 
 which  will  get  2  and  1  half  three  foot 
 here  but  all  of  these  will  grow  in  the 
 same  ratio  to  be  around  a  tree  that 
 grows  as  slow  as  this  triple  bottle  Palm 
 so  um  they're  they're  not  going  to 
 compete  or  engulf  this  bottle  Palm  like 
 a  lot  of  uh  taller  or  bigger  plants 
 would  so  this  tearing  is  going  to  be  a 
 very  nice  controlled  tearing  something 
 that  you  could  also  use  for  Agave  which 
 is  why  I  have  them  over  there  on  that 
 side  for  the  Agave  because  the  height 
 requirements  the  the  the  leaf  structure 
 the  growth  rate  is  all  slow  and  compact 
 they  can  go  around  your  structure  plants 
 so  Agave  small  palm  trees  um  without 
 overtaking  them  um  so  to  the  backside  we 
 got  to  get  a  little  wild  here  so 
 obviously  our  equipment  box  here  here  is 
 um  there's  a  lot  to  it  you  know  we've 
 got  a  lot  going  on  we've  got  lighting 
 we've  got  the  lighting  for  the  water 
 feature  we've  got  all  the  um  electrical 
 outlets  and  whatnot  so  we  needed 
 something  that  was  going  to  be  a  little 
 bit  more  aggressive  to  the  back  side  of 
 this  tree  and  I  don't  mind  if  this 
 becomes  a  little  wall  back  here  of  4 
 feet  so  these  are  the  dwarf  curly  Java 
 whites  now  I  know  they're  not  you  know 
 they're  not  just  something  magnificent 
 right  out  of  the  box  they're  going  to 
 take  time  to  really  kind  of  give  you 
 that  look  um  but  they're  so  so  so 
 stunning  when  they  connect  together  they 
 become  full  and  they  become  that  4T 
 height  so  about  you  know  just  kind  of 
 right  in  this  range  they're  going  to 
 kind  of  do  a  swath  to  kind  of  control 
 the  view  line  of  these  boxes  and  then 
 fully  connect  together  and  be  more 
 jungle  like  I  mean  if  you  can  get  a 
 close-up  on  these  leaves  Bry  I  mean  this 
 looks  like  a  just  I  just  love  this 
 little  curly  connection  this  little 
 roset  of  just  just  beautiful  curled 
 leaves  with  this  white  edging  it's  such 
 a  stunning  plant  look  at  this  detail  in 
 color  here  I  just  I  love  them  so  they 
 are  the  curly  dwarf  Jabba  whites  and 
 we've  got  some  regular  Jabba  whes  over 
 there  and  I'll  be  sure  to  mention  the 
 differences  so  those  guys  get  giant 
 these  guys  stay  more  Compact  and  so 
 these  are  also  a  little  harder  to  find 
 in  the  nursery  so  you  just  have  to  make 
 sure  that  they're  the  slow  growing  dwarf 
 variety  if  that's  what  you're  looking 
 for  then  we  get  away  from  anything  dwarf 
 and  we  get  to  the  blaze  copper  leaf  and 
 these  guys  are  just  like  their  their 
 names  say  they  are  they  are  a  blaze  of 
 fun  fun  they're  gorgeous  color  they  get 
 four  or  5T  tall  they're  going  to 
 completely  engulf  this  back  area  you  can 
 see  how  we're  getting  lower  to  higher  as 
 we  get  to  this  backside  because  this 
 drama  back  here  and  you  guys  are  nothing 
 but  drama  ladies  they're  just  going  to 
 really  engulf  each  other  they  will  do 
 that  in  a  matter  of  months  and  then  be 
 really  just  a  gorgeous  specimen  wrapping 
 around  this  tree  so  when  you  plant  these 
 guys  be  careful  make  sure  you  have  some 
 room  for  them  to  really  grow  in  make 
 sure  they're  the  backdrop  plant  to  a  lot 
 of  your  your  Gardens  like  let  them 
 really  kind  of  be  nice  four  five  foot 
 beautiful  backdrop  so  you're  not 
 constantly  trimming  on  those  but  they're 
 absolutely  stunning  in  the  winter  time 
 they  have  a  little  bit  more  coloration 
 in  the  leaf  during  the  summer  time  they 
 go  more  of  a  softer  pink  but  I  I  love 
 this  Leaf  color  I  love  the  way  they  look 
 I  love  the  the  way  they  hang  and  you  can 
 trim  these  guys  um  in  the  summer  months 
 if  you  don't  want  to  trim  too  much  you 
 can  trim  them  Way  Way  Back  you  can  give 
 them  the  ugliest  haircut  I  mean  I'm 
 talking  dumb  and  dumber  bangs  kind  of 
 haircut  you  can  you  can  really  go  to 
 town  and  you're  not  going  to  hurt  them 
 they'll  pop  back  up  and  they'll  just 
 kind  of  Mound  back  out  and  be  beautiful 
 so  very  very  tough  plant  so  I  love  the 
 way  they  work  be  careful  Bryce  you're 
 going  to  stand  right  into  that  um  this 
 is  a  wet  zone  so  this  is  an  overflow  for 
 the  water  features  so  once  the  water 
 gets  up  to  a  certain  height  we  put  in  a 
 little  Channel  there's  a  pipe  that  comes 
 through  here  and  then  it  just  releases 
 right  into  the  lower  section  of  the 
 grass  right  there  so  um  so  that's  I 
 think  anytime  you  can  do  a  water  feature 
 especially  this  close  to  the  house 
 definitely  do  an  overflow  because  that 
 protects  you  know  any  of  your  structures 
 from  getting  too  wet  a  tropical  storm  or 
 tropical  storm  or  hurricanes  any  of 
 those  kind  is  that  what  it's  for  it's 
 for  any  kind  of  rainstorms  because  in 
 Florida  we  get  either  no  rain  or  we  get 
 Monsoon  rain  so  this  is  to  kind  of 
 release  that  water  so  it  doesn't  have 
 time  to  go  that  direction  it's  always 
 going  to  go  that  way  waterfall  with  an 
 insurance  policy  there  you  go  waterfall 
 with  an  insurance 
 policy  BR  said  um  so  this  is  a  fat  fat 
 fox  tail  Palm  I  when  I  tagged  it  I  was 
 in  love  with  just  how  gorgeous  it  is  um 
 this  now  this  lower  limbs  are  going  to 
 drop  because  they've  been  tied  up  for 
 transport  but  once  that  happens  they're 
 it's  going  to  it's  just  going  to  flush 
 out  with  just  gorgeous  limbs  so  when  you 
 guys  see  these  projects  and  they're  very 
 very  new  a  lot  of  these  lower  limbs  have 
 all  been  trimmed  for  transport  and  then 
 of  course  after  things  get  PL  Ed 
 whatever  was  tied  up  they're  going  to 
 also  be  trimmed  off  as  well  so  you're 
 going  to  have  a  little  bit  of  a  sparse 
 canopy  like  you  see  here  but  you  know 
 just  in  a  matter  of  6  months  that  that 
 canopy  is  going  to  reproduce  four  or 
 five  fronds  and  it's  just  going  to  go  to 
 town  especially  with  all  the  nutrients 
 that  we  pack  them  in  when  we  plant  them 
 with  so  he's  going  to  be  a  gorgeous 
 statement  here  on  this 
 corner  um  to  oh  I'm  sorry  we  didn't  miss 
 a  couple  of  these  plants  up 
 here  so  I'm  doing  my  waterfalls  a  little 
 bit  different  different  um  than  I  had  in 
 the  past  you  know  I  am  a  very  much  of  a 
 um  engulf  the  space  kind  of  girl  um  so 
 in  the  past  I've  definitely  had 
 waterfalls  where  when  it's  around  the 
 edges  to  soften  those  edges  I've  taken 
 plants  that  really  kind  of  kind  of  hang 
 over  top  of  it  like  I've  done  in  my  own 
 garden  with  my  elephant  ears  and  my  um 
 sloppy  painter  croin  and  stuff  so  that 
 that  way  there's  just  it's  there's  you 
 really  don't  see  those  edges  but  in  this 
 particular  feature  because  I  wanted  a 
 very  clean  look  I  actually  did  the 
 opposite  I  did  a  very  clean  ring  all  the 
 way  around  the  water  feature  of  lowly 
 plants  so  it's  no  way  Disturbed  um  so 
 we've  got  dwarf  kcia  here  and  they're 
 going  to  get  about  2ot  tall  and  just  be 
 a  nice  chunky  green  just  nice  and  full 
 and  thick  and  clean  and  really  easy  to 
 work  around  and  then  some  golden  Sedum 
 tapped  into  the  bottom  areas  here  um 
 right  in  the  crack  so  that  way  it  just 
 kind  of  grows  a  little  bit  into  the 
 waterfall  itself  to  kind  of  natural  ize 
 it  a  bit  and  then  around  this  whole 
 backside  it's  the  same  kind  of  concept 
 it's  blw  my  minds  and  then  to  the  back 
 we  got  a  little  crazy  with  the  songs  of 
 India  these  guys  are  going  to  mesh  into 
 almost  like  a  tropical  hedge  back  here 
 you  can  see  kind  of  how  their  leaves  get 
 a  little  bit  wonky  and  crazy  you  can 
 trim  off  anything  that  you  don't  want 
 but  overall  what  they're  searching  for 
 is  their  neighboring  plant  so  they're 
 going  to  try  to  attach  to  that  one  and 
 attach  to  that  one  and  before  you  know 
 it  you  you'll  have  a  swath  of  all  of 
 this  gorgeous  color  nice  vibrancy  at  4T 
 tall  and  it  will  be  stunning  and  they're 
 going  to  pop  up  over  top  of  these  little 
 twoof  foot  blue  my  minds  and  what  a 
 color  contrast  from  inside  you  know  they 
 have  the  screen  room  there  so  I 
 definitely  wanted  to  make  sure  that  I 
 had  enough  color  that  um  they're  going 
 to  see  all  of  the  the  just  the  slight 
 changes  of  variations  of  the  plants  that 
 they  have  going  on  back  here  I  want  the 
 tropics  to  be  inside  as  much  as  possible 
 so  when  we  have  screen  rooms  I  go  a 
 little  bit  a  little  bit  crazy  with  color 
 and  then  we  have  the  red  copper  leaves 
 to  the  back  now  those  were  at  such  an 
 angle  you  have  a  hard  time  seeing  those 
 there  but  those  are  going  to  get  5  feet 
 so  we  have  five  maybe  six  feet  depends 
 on  how  they  want  them  to  grow  but 
 they're  going  to  be  5  to  six  foot 
 backdrop  of  red  you  have  the  songs  of 
 India  with  their  bright  tones  About  4 
 feet  and  then  2  feet  with  the  blue  my 
 mindes  and  then  again  a  little  pop  of 
 color  with  the  golden  sedums  coming 
 through  the  cracks  there 
 so  it's  the  same  thing  that  I  do  I'm 
 kind  of  I'm  a  rinse  and  repeat  kind  of 
 girl  it's  bright  colors  dark  colors 
 bright  colors  dark  colors  nothing  shows 
 up  against  a  brighter  color  than  a 
 darker  color  so  that  they  play  so  well 
 together  so  when  you  guys  are  working 
 through  your  garden  make  sure  you  do 
 nice  patches  and  I  don't  mean  one  one 
 light  one  bright  I  mean  collection  so  if 
 you  can  do  a  swath  of  one  swath  of 
 another  and  a  swath  of  another  then 
 you've  pretty  much  made  yourself  a 
 beautiful  landscape  plan  and  and  you 
 know  with  just  a  handful  of  plants  cuz 
 that  really  really  takes  off  and  really 
 works  right  over  in  this  little  corner 
 right  here  Bryce  I  want  to  share  those 
 with  you  I  didn't  use  many  of  them  but 
 there's  only  four  those  are  the  Rosa  um 
 curly  copper  leaves  those  are  also  a 
 dwarf  so  they're  not  going  to  compete  in 
 any  way  with  the  blaze  copper  leaf 
 they're  kind  of  just  closer  you  know  I  I 
 wanted  something  to  highlight  that  cool 
 little  little  um  wall  rock  wall  that 
 you're  standing  on  there  I  just  think 
 that  that's  kind  of  a  nice  little  cool 
 addition 
 it  holds  the  grade  of  the  waterfall  in 
 area  in  and  that's  more  um  for  the 
 logistics  of  of  making  sure  that  the  the 
 weakest  part  of  the  waterfall  which  is 
 up  at  the  very  top  is  make  sure  that 
 that  grade  is  nice  and  tight  and  packed 
 in  so  I  use  plants  and  trees  to  hold 
 grades  in  but  in  some  key  areas  you 
 definitely  want  to  have  a  little  bit 
 more  a  little  bit  more  tension  on  that 
 so  this  is  so  this  spot  right  here  never 
 bucks  back  and  moves  so  that's  just  a 
 nice  little  anchor  wall  there  um  so  and 
 then  now  we're  we're  here  for  the  the 
 crown  of  the  whole  feature  so  um  this  is 
 obviously  a  big  wide  waterfall  so  I  we 
 needed  something  with  some  gravitas 
 something  with  some  impact  um  this  is  a 
 ALR  Palm  also  nicknamed  the  cold  coconut 
 and  it's  it's  nicknamed  that  because 
 these  long  fronds  kind  of  emulate  a 
 coconut  palm  it's  not  actually  in  the 
 coconut  palm  family  but  it  is  a  gorgeous 
 gorgeous  gorgeous  plant  to  work  or 
 gorgeous  tree  to  work  with  I  love  its 
 upright  Fountain  kind  of  look  you  know 
 you  have  that  kind  of  tight  I'm  going  to 
 get  out  of  the  way  so  you  can  see  it 
 that  that  Fountain  tight  like 
 base  here  and  I  just  see  how  just  it's 
 almost  like  a  bottle  base  down  below  and 
 then  it  goes  narrow  narrow  and  then 
 explodes  at  the  top  which  oh  my  gosh  you 
 guys  I  just  think  it  is  absolutely 
 stunning  it's  huge  they  grow  incredibly 
 slow  so  this  is  not  a  tree  like  a 
 coconut  palm  that  will  grow  through  3  to 
 4  foot  a  year  this  tree  you're  going  to 
 get  6  in  to  maybe  close  to  a  foot  I  mean 
 it'  have  to  be  in  really  good  conditions 
 for  that  but  6  in  is  the  average  um  so 
 when  you've  got  a  tree  that  you  need  big 
 time  coverage  and  you  need  it  to  be 
 there  for  years  this  is  your  go-to  tree 
 now  the  one  negative  with  this  tree  is 
 it's  a  water  hungry  tree  so  you  need  to 
 make  sure  that  during  the  establishment 
 period  it  gets  water  at  least  every 
 other  day  um  for  if  you're  using  a  hose 
 you  want  to  maybe  Circle  that  for  about 
 4  or  5  minutes  if  you're  going  to  use  a 
 drip  line  system  then  30  minutes  at 
 least  so  um  this  is  um  this  is  a 
 fabulous  tree  they  go  through  their 
 natural  shocking  on  this  tree  even  the 
 young  ones  so  transplant  is  not  super 
 easy  with  them  they  rarely  die  on  you 
 but  they  do  go  through  this  rounding 
 phase  of  not  liking  to  move  from  home  to 
 home  they  are  very  steadfast  once  they 
 get  there  they're  not  susceptible  to 
 many  pest  or  disease  so  they're  strong 
 once  they're  established  but  their 
 weakest  point  is  always  going  to  be 
 their  transplant  their  installation  time 
 so  um  but  well  well  worth  it  we'll  come 
 back  in  a  month  um  for  my  clients  and 
 we'll  trim  some  of  these  lower  fronds 
 that  need  to  go  and  then  you  know  it'll 
 start  to  produce  slowly  start  to  produce 
 new  fronds  and  kind  of  um  you  know  do 
 what  it's  meant  to  do  here  now  this  tree 
 has  so  many  fronds  that  it  is  a  perfect 
 sound  barrier  I  mean  I'm  telling  you 
 this  guy  is  going  to  be  so  so  dense  and 
 so  full  and  keep  in  mind  we've  cut  off 
 about  seven  or  eight  frond  for  transport 
 cuz  when  it  opens  up  it's  going  to  open 
 up  like  this  all  the  way  through  the 
 sides  and  I'll  maybe  I'll  I'll  um  get 
 Bryce  to  kind  of  slide  in  a  picture  of 
 ours  at  our  house  and  that's  been  in  for 
 a  couple  years  and  it's  um  really  you 
 know  really  opened  up  and  you  can  kind 
 of  see  see  what  that  looks  like  but  um 
 but  yeah  so  it's  going  to  be  nice  and 
 thick  and  it  is  the  jewel  it's  the  crown 
 of  the  back  Garden  it  is  definitely  the 
 focal  point  feature  and  it's  kind  of 
 what  I  frame  the  other  trees  off  of  so 
 usually  you  find  a  centerpiece  and  then 
 work  and  balance  off  the  sides  from 
 there  and  that's  what  we  did  here  now 
 along  the  backside  again  to  give  some 
 coverage  and  give  some  give  some  almost 
 like  a  wall  to  this  water  feature  we 
 chose  Pym  dat  Palms  so  this  is  going  to 
 do  a  nice  job  as  it  matures  these  guys 
 are  very  young  but  is  as  it  matures  it's 
 going  to  do  a  nice  job  of  kind  of 
 creating  a  wall  of  just  weepy  fronds 
 they've  all  been  trimmed  really  heavily 
 for  transport  so  you  guys  don't  get  the 
 beauty  of  seeing  them  really  kind  of  be 
 almost  heavy  fronded  but  once  they  do 
 grow  back  into  that  and  become  heavy 
 frond  all  the  way  around  you'll  hardly 
 see  these  trunks  they'll  turn  around  and 
 just  you'll  just  turn  back  here  and  just 
 see  a  wall  of  very  very  weepy  long 
 fronds  these  guys  are  going  to  mature 
 out  to  12T  and  the  reason  why  we  brought 
 them  in  so  young  is  because  this  tree 
 grows  so  slow  I  didn't  want  these  to 
 compete  with  this  tree  until 
 you  know  until  it's  pretty  much  ready 
 for  them  to  become  a  wall  so  these  are 
 going  to  max  out  at  12T  tall  which  will 
 give  them  the  perfect  12T  backdrop 
 barrier  cuz  if  you  haven't  noticed  the 
 slopes  down  pretty  aggressively  here  and 
 so  sorry  so  we  needed  something  that  was 
 going  to  become  a  taller  wall  back  here 
 and  that's  these  are  going  to  do  just 
 that  so  so  that's  why  we  we  brought  them 
 in  a  little  bit  young  so  that  way  they 
 grow  in  proportion  with  the  tree  that's 
 here  and  then  we  have  Chinese  Fen  pom 
 we  only  dappled  in  two  back  here  cuz 
 these  guys  will  get  big  over  time  they 
 will  get  gorgeous  and  really  become  a 
 mound  or  a  clustering  of  these  kind  of 
 weepy  crazy  fronds  anytime  I  do 
 something  like  very  silky  and  clean  like 
 the  fox  tail  palms  that  have  more  of  a 
 cleanline  trunk  um  I  like  to  bring  in  a 
 little  bit  of  crazy  and  that's  what 
 these  Palms  do  they're  as  long  as 
 there's  enough  room  for  them  they're  a 
 great  backdrop  um  to  most  Landscapes 
 they  grow  very  slow  they  they're  cold 
 hearty  for  Florida  they  are 
 and  um  you  can  incorporate  them  in  a 
 very  polished  design  making  them  the 
 wild  and  crazy  friend  and  I  love  this 
 waxy  Green  Leaf  I  just  I  just  like  the 
 way  that  looks  it's  like  a  bunch  of 
 little  windmills  stuck  together  I  mean 
 look  at  that  Bri  isn't  that 
 gorgeous  and  then  ended  it  off  with  some 
 Blaze  copper  leaves  I  mean  look  at  this 
 color  I  just  just  look  I  don't  know  if 
 you  can  get  a  closeup  of  this  color 
 variation  it's  just  a  stunning 
 plant  now  they  will  get  big  on  you  so 
 you  have  to  be  okay  with  them  being  four 
 five  and  in  some  cases  6  foot  just 
 depends  on  what  your  what  your 
 application  is  but  um  you  know  you  guys 
 can  keep  them  smaller  that's  what's 
 great  about  this  you  can  keep  them  three 
 foot  tall  it's  just  more  maintenance 
 involved  with  that  so  if  you  don't  mind 
 being  a  a  gardener  out  in  there  trimming 
 and  you  know  every  couple  months  then 
 that  might  work  just  perfectly  fine  for 
 you  but  just  keep  in  mind  that  they  do 
 take  a  little  bit  more  work  if  you  want 
 to  keep  them  small  now  another  thing  to 
 hard  hard  thing  to  keep  small  are  these 
 Java  white  copper  leaves  I  I  know  I've 
 mentioned  this  so  I  won't  harp  on  it  too 
 much  but  it  is  a  cool  big  leafed  plant  I 
 mean  look  at  the  size  of  this  Leaf 
 compared  to  my  hand  and  this  is  a  fairly 
 young  plant  this  came  in  as  a  10g  plant 
 and  um  it's  just  going  to  completely 
 engulf  The  Backs  side  of  this  double  fox 
 tail  Palm  it's  going  to  be  stunning  um 
 as  a  kind  of  a  wall  because  we  stopped 
 the  bed  right  here  I  needed  a  final  tier 
 I  needed  this  to  be  to  grow  fast  and 
 become  a  really  really  nice  ending  wall 
 to  this  tree  and  that  way  it  really 
 showcases  these  trunks  even  better  so 
 what  a  gorgeous  thing  that's  going  to  be 
 when  it's  about  my  height  and  fully 
 connected  and  nice  and  dense  and  thick 
 now  to  the  front  I  didn't  want  that  so 
 we  have  the  dwarf  Jaa  whites  to  the 
 front  so  now  we're  coming  back  around 
 here  and  you  really  have  that  dwarf 
 where  it  just  tears  down  here  and  then 
 we  go  lower  and  lower  like  we  did  on 
 that  other  side  so  you  can  kind  of  see 
 how  the  transition  Falls  all  the  way  as 
 you  get  to  the  front  um  we  did  miss  the 
 kusia  back  here  in  the 
 back  and  the  reason  why  I  mentioned  that 
 is  because  if  you  guys  remember  earlier 
 in  the  video  I  talked  about  the  um  the 
 sound  of  of  voices  that  you  can  really 
 hear  from  the  surrounding  neighbors  and 
 so  the  clusia  is  not  only  a  great  uh 
 visual  barrier  as  far  as  a  backdrop 
 where  it  completely  conceals  you  kind  of 
 like  a  green  wall  but  it  also  is  so 
 thick  and  so  dense  there's  so  many 
 leaves  packed  in  and  it  has  that  big 
 glossy  green  kind  of  succulent  leathery 
 leaf  that  does  a  good  job  of  just 
 bouncing  sound  off  it's  just  truly 
 amazing  when  you  when  you  allow  those 
 guys  to  get  tall  big  and  thick  it's  like 
 you're  like  what's  going  on  over  there 
 is  it  is  is  there  construction  happening 
 you  like  you  hear  nothing  it's  great  so 
 that  is  our  goal  to  create  that  blockage 
 that  sound  barrier  and  so  this  circles 
 the  rear  side  of  the  water  feature  doing 
 just  that  so  we  have  like  multiple 
 layers  as  a  almost  like  a  soundproofing 
 agent  and  then  just  to  be  super  sure 
 just  to  be  super  safe  we  also  have  a 
 kusia  hedge  that  runs  along  the  rear 
 side  of  the  property  line  so  that  way 
 that  will  become  a  nice  second  secondary 
 wall  so  we  are  really  doing  a  fantastic 
 job  of  helping  our  clients  kind  of 
 create  that  real  controlled  Resort 
 environment  um  you  know  I  enjoyed  so 
 much  working  on  this  project  because 
 when  you're  when  you're  dreaming  and 
 talking  and  discussing  kind  of  what  you 
 want  to  see  what  you  want  to  hear  what 
 you  know  what  what  you  want  to  be 
 surrounded  by  that  just  gets  my  goat 
 that's  what  I'm  I  just  I'm  so  thrilled 
 about  pulling  that  together  I  spent  days 
 inside  while  the  guys  were  out  here  we 
 were  placing  things  plants  and  trees 
 days  for  the  the  design  process  inside 
 sitting  at  their  at  their  um  uh  grilling 
 station  at  the  the  table  the  dining 
 table  the  outdoor  um  sectional  all  all 
 of  that  I  went  from  place  to  place  to 
 place  because  my  goal  is  to  create  that 
 space  um  for  every  every  different  angle 
 you  know  and  then  it's  the  same  way  with 
 inside  you  know  it's  the  window  that  you 
 you  wash  dishes  at  it's  the  um  the  front 
 door  that  you  open  when  it  opens  up  to 
 the  back  when  the  all  the  the  doors  of 
 the  windows  open  up  to  the  backyard  it's 
 that  that  pop  of  impact  that  you  want 
 that  draws  you  from  one  place  to  another 
 cuz  we  want  to  live  outdoors  that's  our 
 goal  you  know  especially  here  in  Florida 
 we're  at  the  benefit  of  a  beautiful  you 
 know  tropical  environment  so  let's  use 
 it  and  so  you  know  instead  of  instead  of 
 spending  two  or  three  days  for  me  at  a 
 you  know  gorgeous  Retreat  I  would  just 
 rather  spend  it  at  home  and  create  my 
 own  Retreat  and  so  I  feel  like  I  get  to 
 work  with  a  lot  of  like-minded 
 individuals  who  want  just  that  so  so  if 
 that's  your  Vibe  or  that's  your  look 
 then  I  hope  these  videos  help  kind  of 
 give  you  some  direction  or  maybe  some 
 inspiration  is  all  you  need  to  get  out 
 there  in  your  garden  and  create  those 
 same  kind  of  looks  for  yourself  so  well 
 gardeners  I  think  that's  going  to  be  it 
 for  today  um  oh  don't  forget  to  pick  up 
 your  true  Gardener  t-shirts  they  are  out 
 ryce  has  done  a  great  job  I'm  sourcing  a 
 great  fabric  I'm  in  love  with  them  for 
 those  of  you  guys  who  are  kind  of  on  the 
 border  Like  Me  Maybe  size  up  a  little 
 bit  because  I  noticed  they  do  kind  of 
 fit  just  a  tad  bit  tight  so  hopefully 
 that  helps  but  also  the  true  Gardener 
 hats  oh  my  goodness  yes  I'm  excited  my 
 my  wine  glass  is  on  its  way  and  coffee 
 mug  and  um  cuz  Bryce  had  to  do  a  couple 
 little  tweaks  on  them  but  I  think  that 
 it's  all  for  the  best  check  Che  out  this 
 video  you  guys  if  you're  wanting  to 
 create  a  tropical  look  but  your  space 
 isn't  quite  the  size  of  this  one  maybe 
 it's  nice  and  narrow  this  one  might  help 
 give  you  guys  some  really  good 
 inspiration  for  a  smaller  backyard

---

 um  today  is  going  to  be  all  about  rock 
 installation  how  to  install  Rock  and  why 
 it  is  crucial  um  to  really  prep  the  area 
 well  so  I'm  going  to  go  into  kind  of  the 
 steps  on  how  we  prep  our  area  for  rock 
 um  the  type  of  edging  that  we  use  I'm 
 going  to  give  you  a  couple  different  um 
 a  couple  different  options  and  I'll  be 
 sure  to  link  them  down  below  and  then 
 I'm  going  to  tell  you  um  the  type  of 
 rock  that  we  enjoy  using  and  why  um  so 
 let's  Dive  Right  In  so  we're  on  a 
 project  here  today  and  bernabi  is  nice 
 enough  to  let  us  follow  him  and 
 demonstrate  exactly  the  steps  for  us  so 
 you  guys  get  to  see  this  in  real  time 
 this  particular  home  we're  actually 
 putting  Stone  and  mulch  in  um  as  you 
 guys  probably  are  aware  in  your  own 
 house  that  um  mulch  has  a  tendency  to 
 run  um  especially  when  we  get  those 
 heavy  heavy  flored  downpours  of  rain  so 
 I  commonly  in  a  lot  of  my  projects  will 
 um  do  mulch  within  the  planting  beds  but 
 right  along  the  border  of  the  walkway 
 right  by  the  front  entrance  of  the  house 
 where  you  don't  want  that  mulch  kind  of 
 flowing  over  into  the  into  the  pathway 
 or  into  the  into  the  driveway  area  I'll 
 do  a  dividing  line  of  edging  and  then  do 
 a  swath  of  stone  because  it  not  only 
 looks  kind  of  cool  but  it  really  stops 
 it  keeps  everything  so  nice  and  clean 
 keeps  the  mulch  in  its  place  and  the 
 rock  kind  of  borders  everything  and  then 
 gives  you  a  little  bit  of  highlight  in 
 the  landscape  so  that's  kind  of  what 
 we're  going  to  look  at  here  but  I'll 
 break  down  the  steps  into  four  easy 
 steps  and  we'll  kind  of  just  walk  right 
 through  those  so  let's  do  it  so  step  one 
 would  be  um  clearing  out  the  area  so 
 whatever  the  area  is  that  you're  going 
 to  prep  for  your  stone  is  make  sure  it's 
 fully  cleaned  out  so  if  it's  grass  if 
 it's  just  landscape  debris  if  it's  weeds 
 especially  try  to  get  the  whole  um  get 
 the  whole  root  ball  of  that  weed  out 
 just  so  you're  starting  with  a  nice 
 clean  base  and  then  take  a  moment  and 
 just  kind  of  rake  that  area  out  level  it 
 out  the  best  that  you  can  it  does  not 
 need  to  be  laser  level  but  it  does  need 
 to  be  kind  of  where  it's  not  got  lumps 
 and  bumps  all  in  it  because  the  last 
 thing  you  want  is  when  we  do  have  rain 
 you  have  like  a  little  collection  of  of 
 puddles  in  the  Rock  so  you  kind  of  want 
 that  rock  to  be  on  a  nice  flat  surface 
 so  you  know  so  remove  all  the  debris 
 level  that  area  out  now  you're  prepped 
 for  the  next  step  The  Next  Step  would  be 
 a  weed  barrier  um  I  will  list  our  uh  the 
 weed  barrier  that  we  use  um  all  the  time 
 on  all  of  our  projects  I  absolutely  love 
 it  I'll  List  It  Down  Below  um  it  you 
 want  to  make  sure  that  you  put  that  weed 
 barrier  in  cut  it  to  size  so  if  it's  on 
 a  curve  make  sure  you  curve  that  weed 
 barrier  if  it's  going  to  go  around  a 
 plant  make  sure  to  kind  of  keep  it  nice 
 and  tight  around  that  plant  and  then  pin 
 it  in  definitely  on  the  sides  you  want 
 to  make  sure  that  you're  you're  working 
 with  a  Level  Playing  Field  so  it's  it's 
 should  be  fairly  easy  to  you  know  where 
 it's  not  you  know  leaning  to  one  side  or 
 we're  losing  rock  on  one  corner  so  you 
 want  to  kind  of  pin  it  in  all  the  right 
 places  it's  usually  on  the  edges  and 
 then  one  in  the  middle  to  really  keep  it 
 nice  and  secure  so  depending  on  how  much 
 width  that  you're  working  with  so  weed 
 barrier  in  pin  it  nice  and  tight  and 
 then  um  step  three  would  be  to  find  an 
 edging  that  you  like  um  whe  whatever 
 edging  that  you  tend  to  tend  to  use  some 
 people  like  to  use  real  brick  some 
 people  like  to  use  um  you  know  the 
 concrete  curbing  I'm  not  a  fan  of  either 
 one  of  them  um  for  mainly  for  their 
 permanent  basis  I  like  an  edging  that 
 you  can  pick  up  and  you  can  move  my 
 favorite  of  alltime  edging  is  the  buta 
 edging  I  like  that  it's  pliable  it's 
 movable  it  comes  in  different  colors  I 
 use  it  on  so  many  of  my  projects  I  use 
 it  in  my  own  house  um  because  if  I 
 change  my  beds  design  like  I  I  tend  to 
 do  and  you  guys  know  I  do  um 
 I  can  pick  that  up  and  I  can  you  know 
 add  a  plant  add  a  tree  add  a  little 
 island  and  then  um  add  to  that  edging 
 and  kind  of  extend  it  out  so  it's  it's 
 pretty  easy  to  work  with  another  edging 
 that  um  I  use  often  is  the  edging  that 
 you're  going  to  see  here  on  this 
 particular  project  this  edging  is  the 
 aluminum  alloy  edging  and  it  is  a 
 fantastic  edging  to  um  border  Stone  from 
 mulch  I  don't  necessarily  love  it  as 
 much  for  um  bordering  um  uh  grass  from 
 mulch  um  only  because  a  lot  of  these  m 
 come  through  really  really  hairy  Cary 
 and  have  a  tendency  to  R  run  over  top  of 
 of  edging  and  that  edging  will  kind  of 
 continue  to  sink  if  if  that  keeps 
 happening  or  it  could  bend  the  buta 
 edging  is  something  that  is  pretty  much 
 once  it's  in  the  ground  it's  staked 
 fully  you  can  pretty  much  run  a  truck 
 over  top  of  it  and  then  you're  AOK  so  I 
 like  using  the  buta  edging  for  that 
 particular  purpose  but  in  this  situation 
 because  we're  not  worried  about  any  kind 
 of  mowers  or  anything  like  that  over  top 
 of  it  this  is  a  fantastic  edging  to 
 border  the  two  and  it's  kind  of  got  a 
 nice  defined  clean  line  you  really  don't 
 see  anything  but  that  top  ribbed  part  of 
 the  edging  once  the  the  Rock  is  in  and 
 the  the  mulches  in  and  pushed  up  against 
 it  and  it  becomes  a  nice  solid  barrier 
 it's  in  it's  done  it's  permanent  so  it's 
 going  to  do  a  fantastic  job  of  keeping 
 everything  compact  everything  um  just 
 really  like  a  almost  almost  like  a  a  a 
 paper  base  you  know  it's  going  to  be 
 just  nice  and  compact  so  so  step  four 
 would  be  of  course  now  you're  ready  for 
 your  stone  so  um  you  want  to  choose  the 
 stone  the  right  stone  for  the  project 
 this  particular  spot  we're  going  to  use 
 the  tahan  gray  Granite  um  kind  of 
 complement  the  color  of  the  house  and 
 then  I'm  using  the  inch  and  a  half  here 
 because  it's  the  perfect  size  where  it's 
 not  too  big  for  an  area  um  but  it  is  um 
 it  it  compacts  and  knits  really  well 
 because  there's  multiple  sizes  in  this 
 one  so  it's  an  inch  to  inch  and  a  half 
 is  the  size  that  I  like  to  use  it  does 
 not  roll  it  doesn't  move  it  has  more  of 
 jagged  edges  so  once  it  gets  down  and 
 once  it  gets  you  know  all  all  compacted 
 together  um  then  it  just  stays  put  and 
 we  don't  use  a  compactor  we  don't  even 
 use  a  tamper  on  our  edging  because  every 
 all  that  other  the  prep  work  that  you  do 
 beforehand  and  now  that  you  have  the 
 borders  in  place  you  do  not  need  to 
 compact  that  that's  going  to  become 
 after  a  few  rains  a  nice  solid  base  so 
 this  is  fantastic  tiian  gry  granite  or 
 gray  Granite  is  a  fantastic  um  product 
 to  work  with  now  if  you're  doing  a  hill 
 Stone  bed  um  like  for  a  decorative 
 landscape  bed  then  I  love  using  the 
 white  Riverstone  you  can  use  the  brown 
 Riverstone  um  those  are  round  rocks  so 
 they  do  roll  so  that's  not  something  you 
 want  to  use  to  walk  on  but  ideal  to  use 
 as  just  a  decorative  feature  in  the 
 garden  so  you  know  you  have  you  have 
 those  options  so  um  yeah  so  I  hope  this 
 video  helps  um  just  to  let  you  guys  know 
 and  full  transparency  I  am  an  affiliate 
 for  the  butaa  edging  and  um  and  any  of 
 the  product  links  that  I'm  going  to  link 
 down  Down  Below  in  my  Amazon  storefront 
 I  do  receive  a  commission  um  however  it 
 doesn't  cost  you  guys  anything  else  and 
 it  does  help  me  in  the  long  run  so  I'd 
 appreciate  if  you're  going  to  buy  it 
 anyway  buy  it  from  the  links  down  below 
 it's  super  helpful  and  allows  us  to  keep 
 making  these  videos  so  thanks  so  much 
 and  I  hope  um  hope  that  breakdown  really 
 kind  of  you  know  kind  of  helps  get  you 
 out  in  the  garden  and  and  trying  this 
 project  so  good  luck  gardeners

---

 so  hey  gardeners  welcome  back  so  we  are 
 in  virau  Beach  Florida  and  we're  going 
 to  do  a  front  yard  Garden  Tour  it's  a 
 nice  and  crispy  Saturday  morning  I'm  so 
 very  happy  I  get  to  wear  my  boots  uh  for 
 for  fall  it  feels  like  actually  it's 
 fall  here  in  Florida  yes  I  know  by  you 
 know  2  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  it'll  be 
 80  again  and  you  know  it'll  be  back  to 
 to  normal  but  right  now  it's  crisp 
 exactly  that's  what  Bryce  says  do  it 
 while  you  can  so  it's  crisp  it's 
 beautiful  and  I  cannot  wait  to  tour  this 
 garden  with  you  this  is  what  I  would 
 consider  a  typical  front  yard  Garden  um 
 it  had  its  challenges  um  so  I  thought 
 gosh  this  might  be  a  really  good  one  to 
 share  with  you  guys  so  my  clients  Diane 
 and  Ronnie  hi  if  you  guys  are  watching 
 thank  you  so  much  for  allowing  us  to 
 tour  today  this  is  uh  this  is  going  to 
 be  great  and  I  think  it's  going  to  be 
 such  a  great  thing  to  share  with  our 
 YouTube  friends  and  family  um  but  when  I 
 met  with  them  they  told  me  they  wanted 
 Palms  they  wanted  tropical  they  kind  of 
 really  wanted  to  to  soften  some  of  the 
 areas  of  the  house  that  they  kind  of  had 
 some  concerns  over  which  I  totally  got 
 and  I'm  just  getting  ready  to  share  that 
 with  you  guys  um  many  times  we  have 
 problem  areas  um  in  our  yards  that  we're 
 looking  to  kind  of  um  maybe  eradicate 
 erase  or  you  know  try  to  try  to  conceal 
 or  camouflage  and  sometimes  that's 
 that's  the  perfect  thing  to  do  but  in 
 this  particular  case  I  thought  let's 
 work  with  it  so  let  me  go  jump  right 
 into  explaining  kind  of  what  I  mean  on 
 this  particular  home  so  this  is  a 
 beautiful  front  of  the  house  I 
 absolutely  love  their  home  it  was  a 
 pleasure  working  with  it  um  the  only 
 issues  that  I  think  that  um  we  were 
 trying  to  figure  out  how  to  work  with 
 there  is  this  long  uh  sidewalk  that  runs 
 along  the  the  um  subdivision  here  and 
 then  this  walkway  that  leads  and  it's 
 quite  a  long  walkway  that  leads  up  to 
 the  doorway  and  then  it  kind  of  splits 
 to  a  secondary  walkway  that  goes  out  to 
 the  driveway  now  I  think  we  really 
 worked  with  it  really  nicely  with  the 
 new  lands  aping  but  prior  to  that  and 
 I'll  I'll  get  Bryce  to  slide  in  a 
 picture  of  what  that  looked  like  but  it 
 had  a  way  of  um  I'm  looking  more  Runway 
 is  you  know  a  walkway  going  this  way  and 
 that  way  and  this  way  and  around  the  the 
 front  yard  so  I  kind  of  wanted  to  soften 
 that  by  not  you  know  camouflaging  it 
 necessarily  but  almost  ACC  accentuating 
 it  by  bringing  some  curves  around  the 
 walkway  area  kind  of  making  it  not  so 
 long  and  narrow  kind  of  opening  it  up 
 the  best  that  we  could  so  I  thought 
 let's  bring  in  some  pm  s  right  off  the 
 front  to  kind  of  create  that  type  of 
 height  in  Impact  right  by  the  front 
 space  here  and  I  really  think  it  did  um 
 I  love  having  these  young  fox  tail  palms 
 here  to  kind  of  really  just  kind  of 
 soften  your  eye  as  soon  as  you  get  here 
 you  come  up  underneath  the  Palms  I  mean 
 how  magical  is  it  to  I  love  the  idea 
 always  when  I'm  when  I'm  I'm  thinking 
 about  as  people  walk  underneath  the 
 Palms  to  an  entrance  way  I  just  think 
 it's  so  Charming  so  magical  so  as  these 
 trees  mature  and  really  get  some  size  to 
 them  I  think  they're  going  to  do  a 
 beautiful  job  of  being  the  stately  Palms 
 that  that  I  know  they're  going  to  be  and 
 then  right  up  here  there  was  kind  of  a 
 kind  of  an  odd  vshape  here  as  these  two 
 walkways  intersected  so  I  thought  let's 
 create  a  bed  right  here  for  a  third  palm 
 tree  to  kind  of  give  us  more  of  that 
 Palm  alley  kind  of  feel  one  of  the 
 things  that  I  did  notice  when  I  first 
 got  here  in  this  home  is  that  they  did 
 have  some  significance  size  palm  trees  I 
 mean  look  at  the  size  of  these  three 
 coconut 
 palms  now  when  you  first  look  at  it 
 they're  so  above  your  view  line  that  you 
 kind  of  they  kind  of  get  lost  in  sight 
 and  I'm  going  to  get  Bryce  to  again 
 slide  in  another  picture  of  what  that 
 look  like  before  because  it  um  your  eye 
 kind  of  just  it  just  kind  of  gets  lost 
 it's  way  up  there  but  now  with  the 
 intermediate  trees  underneath  of  them 
 especially  as  these  fox  tails  get  more 
 size  to  them  and  that  King  Alexander 
 kind  of  gets  more  height  now  your  eye 
 naturally  just  gradually  goes  up  to  it 
 so  it's  almost  like  it  just  hits  these 
 points  and  that's  what  our  eyes  do  when 
 we're  looking  at  a  garden  they're 
 looking  for  those  little  areas  to  rest 
 so  first  they  hit  all  the  the  plants  and 
 the  trees  and  then  the  agave  and  then 
 things  like  the  um  the  dwarfed  palm 
 trees  like  the  bottle  palm  and  the  pygmy 
 palm  and  then  up  to  the  King  Alexander 
 then  up  to  the  fox  tail  palms  and  then 
 up  your  eye  goes  up  to  the  coconut  palms 
 so  you  feel  like  you  get  it  all  it's 
 just  that  that  becomes  the  roof  line  of 
 all  the  palm  trees  so  I  feel  like  we  we 
 not  only  added  the  Palms  that  are  here 
 but  also  re  addded  The  Palms  that  um 
 were  already  established  here  because 
 you  now  you  get  a  really  really  good 
 visual  of  what  that  looks  like  and  I 
 hope  that  makes  sense  because  there's  so 
 many  times  when  I'll  get  to  a  home  and 
 I'm  looking  at  it  as  far  as  Rel 
 Landscaping  it  and  redesigning  it  and 
 there's  always  this  existing  material 
 maybe  it's  oat  trees  maybe  it's  big  tall 
 canopy  trees  just  like  you  see  here  and 
 I'm  always  looking  to  find  a  way  to  add 
 that  and  bring  that  into  the  new 
 landscape  that  way  it  correlates  and  it 
 really  does  a  nice  job  of  becoming  a 
 stepping  stone  and  we  get  to  borrow  the 
 old  landscape  and  incorporate  it  into 
 the  new  landscape  and  my  clients  we  were 
 talking  about  that  when  we  were  standing 
 by  the  street  um  after  the  installation 
 and  they're  like  gosh  now  you  really  see 
 those  big  giant  coconut  palms  up  there 
 now  I  really  kind  of  I  kind  of 
 appreciate  them  a  whole  lot  more  than 
 before  where  they  were  contemplating 
 whether  to  keep  them  or  not  so  I'm  so 
 glad  that  we  did  I  think  they  add  a 
 punch  to  our  existing  landscape  and  I 
 think  that  once  our  our  new  planting 
 really  starts  to  take  hold  and  matures 
 out  it's  really  all  going  to  come 
 together  all  right  so  I  think  Bryce  you 
 know  let's  go  over  to  this  corner  little 
 walkway 
 here  and  kind  of  just  start  here  cuz  I 
 thought  this  was  just  a  subtle  bit  of 
 impact  now  what  was  here  before  was  a 
 pretty  much  of  a  solid  hedge  it  pretty 
 much  just  covered  this  whole  area  area 
 and  went  around  the  corners  I  love  the 
 idea  of  having  these  lustrum  because 
 once  they  get  a  little  bit  taller 
 they're  going  to  be  able  to  clean  those 
 under  Trunks  and  to  me  those  trunks  they 
 kind  of  give  you  that  great  viny  kind  of 
 look  I  know  this  is  a  young  guy  so  it's 
 kind  of  hard  to  tell  but  they  kind  of 
 have  a  really  cool  ornate  trunk  base  and 
 that'll  give  this  tree  kind  of  a  an 
 interesting  look  from  the  bottom  and 
 then  it's  just  kind  of  a  nice  rounded 
 top  very  clean  very  crisp  um  but  a 
 controllable  space  for  for  what's  you 
 know  only  a  3ft  wide  walkway  so  we  need 
 to  make  sure  that  it  would  really  stay 
 where  it's  put  long  over  over  the  long 
 run  um  then  underneath  I  went  with  some 
 soft  subtle  material  the  golden  Dees 
 just  to  give  a  pop  of  color  from  the 
 road  and  little  clusters  of  things  like 
 the  Mami  croons  and  you'll  notice  that 
 in  this  whole  design  um  and  then  in  many 
 of  my  designs  I'll  do  clusters  of  these 
 for  just  pops  of  color  so  there's  a 
 cluster  of  three  and  a  cluster  of  three 
 and  I  commonly  commonly  do  clusters  of 
 threes  and  fours  for  that  reason  so  that 
 way  we  just  get  that  pop  of  color  I  kind 
 of  want  to  make  this  one  Bush  one 
 cluster  right  here  as  it  grows  and 
 matures  in  these  down  here  are  golden 
 Sedum  I  love  the  way  those  look  in  the 
 ground  I  just  think  they're  just  a  nice 
 nice  bright  spot  that  kind  of  remind  me 
 of  the  golden  Dews  but  I  love  that 
 texture  I  love  that  succulent  texture  I 
 just  think  it's  so  cool  so  neat  and  it's 
 just  so  I  don't  know  so  rubbery  so 
 leathery  it's  just  so  cool  and  then 
 right  here  we  have  a  purple  Bugan  Vila 
 you  guys  know  how  I  feel  about  bgan 
 Vilas  um  you  know  I  know  they  have  the 
 Thorns  I  know  they  can  be  a  little  bit 
 you  know  not  friendly  but  when  you  put 
 them  in  pots  you  can  really  really  get 
 the  most  from  them  um  I  know  a  lot  of 
 people  have  them  in  the  ground  I  get 
 fearful  of  putting  them  in  the  ground 
 even  for  my  clients  even  for  myself  um  I 
 I  you  notice  that  in  my  yard  I  have  four 
 Bugan  Villas  and  they're  all  in  pots  um 
 and  so  she  had  had  this  pot  already  here 
 and  it  was  had  a  a  bunch  of  bunch  of 
 material  in  here  it  was  just  kind  of  a 
 overgrown  and  kind  of  a  mess  for  so  we 
 took  that  all  out  and  I  told  her  I  said 
 let's  put  a  Bugan  Vila  in  here  for  this 
 pop  of  color  now  buan  Vila  you  can  nip 
 and  just  trim  these  edges  and  then  voila 
 that  very  next  weekend  you're  going  to 
 have  blooms  Everywhere  You  trimmed  and 
 you  can  maintain  the  amount  of  water 
 that  this  guy  get  so  all  of  this  plant 
 grouping  that's  here  is  going  to  get 
 water  daily  and  um  this  guy  is  only 
 going  to  get  water  as  needed  because 
 Bugan  vas  like  to  fully  dry  out  so  they 
 like  a  good  saturation  of  water  runs 
 through  the  hole  in  the  drainage  the 
 drainage  holes  in  the  in  the  bottom  of 
 the  pot  and  then  it  dries  right  out 
 that's  the  perfect  environment  for  it  um 
 she's  going  to  fertilize  this  with  bgi 
 buganvilia  fertilizer  about  every  3 
 months  and  this  is  going  to  be  a  very 
 very  happy  plant  I'd  say  only  let  it  get 
 about  a  couple  foot  taller  but  kind  of 
 let  it  Mound  and  really  kind  of  cascade 
 over  top  of  this  really  cool 
 contemporary  pot  and  I  think  it's  just 
 going  to  be  a  fabulous  look  for  in  front 
 of  this  window  because  it's  kind  of  a 
 limited  space  I  don't  know  if  you  can 
 tell  but  Bryce  this  overhang  right  here 
 is  just  so  aggressive  that  we  couldn't 
 put  any  kind  of  tree  material  that  was 
 going  to  you  know  easily  get  into  this 
 space  so  we  chose  things  that  we  can 
 keep  trimmed  keep  contained  that  were 
 not  a  hedge  so  these  little  trees  of  the 
 lustrum  are  going  to  be  fabulous  a 
 couple  foot  taller  but  not  too  tall  to 
 be  you  know  in  this  space  it's  something 
 that  you  can  keep  nice  and  conf  find  and 
 this  buganvilla  gets  plenty  of  Sun  we 
 get  good  afternoon  sun  in  this  whole 
 Space  so  this  plant  is  going  to 
 absolutely  love  this  environment 
 everything  on  this  wall  gets  about  8 
 hours  of  Sun  so  morning  to  midday  the 
 only  time  it  doesn't  seem  to  be  getting 
 sun  is  when  it's  cloudy  like  today  so  I 
 hope  you  guys  are  getting  the  good  a 
 good  enough  color  um  visual  from  the  uh 
 from  the  camera  I  hope  it's  picking  up 
 because  it's  a  a  bit  of  a  cloudy  day  but 
 so  right  here  I  have  a  cluster  of  the 
 four  um  Mami  crotin  and  I  think  that 
 gives  us  a  nice  bit  of  pop  of  color 
 right  here  on  this  corner  and  you  can 
 kind  of  see  the  rhythm  of  it  the  dark 
 the  light  the  dark  the  light  the  dark 
 the  light  and  as  those  things  grow  in 
 together  and  and  a  little  bit  Fuller 
 over  time  that  that  you  can  see  that  pop 
 of  bright  and  dark  from  the  road  and  you 
 kind  of  don't  know  what  it  is  you  don't 
 know  that  that's  not  a  that's  not  a  um  a 
 high  maintenance  plant  grouping  cuz  it's 
 not  at  all  all  um  you  you  don't  know  but 
 it  looks  kind  of  cool  and  exotic  and  I 
 think  that's  what  a  lot  of  people  kind 
 of  get  um  mixed  in  with  doing  a  lot  of 
 the  same  colorations  or  thinking  that 
 you  can  only  make  color  with  blooms  and 
 and  variegations  of  of  plants  and  trees 
 but  sometimes  you  can  take  an  average 
 red  and  mix  it  with  a  yellow  and  then 
 you've  got  a  nice  bit  of  color  between 
 the  two  combinations  because  it's  all  it 
 takes  is  kind  of  going  light  and  dark 
 light  and  dark  just  make  sure  you  have 
 enough  clusters  of  each  item  to  make  it 
 more  pronounced  if  you  do  one  plant 
 light  one  plant  dark  then  that's  that's 
 going  to  get  messy  and  a  little  bit 
 harder  to  maintain  so  you  need  a  cluster 
 that  can  that  con  contain  Itself  by 
 growing  together  as  one  group  then  a 
 break  and  then  another  cluster  that 
 again  will  contain  and  and  um  be  nice 
 and  easy  to  maintain  together  so  hope 
 that  makes  sense  so  we're  going  to  move 
 on  to  the  the  last  little  clustering 
 right  here  of  the  gold  Mounds  in  this 
 bed  and  then  it  is  framing  this 
 beautiful  triple  bottle  Palm  I  feel  like 
 triple  bottle  Palms  have  been  my  thing 
 lately  I  just  I  love  it  when  I  find  them 
 they  come  in  and  out  of  the  nursery  so 
 when  I  find  them  I  try  to  um  get  several 
 of  them  to  use  them  in  gardens  and  for 
 this  reason  alone  it  is  hard  to  find  an 
 intermediate  tree  something  that's  not 
 going  to  be  too  too  tall  that'll  still 
 have  enough  of  an  impact  that  makes  you 
 want  to  um  it  makes  you  want  to  use  it 
 and  this  you  know  6ot  Tree  to  me  on 
 either  side  of  the  walkway  just  screams 
 try  tropical  it's  just  the  perfect 
 underplanting  to  these  big  coconut  palms 
 and  I  really  do  think  that  they  just 
 came  they  just  came  together  so  nicely 
 so  um  you  guys  will  have  to  let  me  know 
 what  you  think  and  then  again  we're  here 
 now  with  pretty  pretty  basic  material 
 these  are  not  you  know  um  high 
 maintenance  um  plants  and  trees  here 
 these  are  things  that  are  dwarfed  and 
 easy  to  contain  in  this  small  little 
 space  so  we've  got  some  dwarf  Taiwanese 
 exor  and  they're  going  to  do  a  nice  job 
 of  kind  of  giving  us  a  pop  of  color  by 
 the  walkway  again  this  is  a  high  Sunny 
 Spot  so  they're  going  to  do  a  good  job 
 of  really  taking  that  sun  and  giving  us 
 10  to  11  months  of  Bloom  um  which  is 
 fabulous  we've  got  some  fox  tail  ferns 
 tucked  in  that  little  area  in  the  back 
 now  that  little  corner  area  probably 
 gets  a  little  bit  of  protection  between 
 the  eve  and  then  that  um  and  that  bottle 
 palm  and  that  really  cool  Confederate 
 jasmine  wall  so  it's  kind  of  going  to  be 
 in  a  tucked  in  a  little  a  little  area  so 
 it's  going  to  get  a  little  bit  more  a 
 little  bit  more  shade  than  anything  else 
 so  that's  why  I  chose  not  to  put 
 anything  there  that  blooms  so  that  way 
 we  don't  have  to  worry  about  it  going 
 green  and  that  also  offers  a  different 
 texture  so  um  I  chose  to  use  the  clusia 
 as  a  backdrop  I  want  this  to  be  like  a 
 4ot  formal  wall  so  this  is  going  to  be  a 
 nice  wall  as  these  grow  in  and  then  it 
 tear  down  to  these  other  softer  plant 
 groupings  so  that  way  from  the  road  it 
 looks  very  very  clean  and  if  you  guys  if 
 you  want  plants  to  really  pop  with  col 
 color  then  the  best  thing  to  do  is  give 
 them  a  green  screen  give  them  a  backdrop 
 of  something  that's  a  solid  color  like  a 
 kusia  and  then  everything  else  will  pop 
 so  much  more  with  color  because  the 
 cusio  will  not  allow  light  to  go  through 
 it'll  be  almost  like  a  dark  dark 
 contrast  like  a  a  dark  barrier  and  then 
 everything  else  will  have  nice  bright 
 color  so  and  then  we  did  a  final  tier  of 
 the  blue  my  Minds  down  below  here  so  um 
 so  we  have  the  the  softness  of  the  Blues 
 right  by  the  walkway  and  then  we  have 
 the  red  ish  orange  of  the  exor  and  then 
 the  lime  green  of  the  foxtail  fern  over 
 in  the  corner  and  then  our  colors  start 
 to  lighten  and  brighten  as  you  get 
 further  up  so  it's  kind  of  a  rinse  and 
 repeat  through  the  whole  bed  so  right 
 here  we  have  the  Gold  Dust  croin  oh  my 
 gosh  you  know  I  just  love  what  they  do 
 um  it  you  know  obviously  it's  gold  dust 
 because  it  looks  like  a  little  painter 
 just  you  know  threw  some  gold  dust  on  it 
 so  this  is  just  a  great  variation  so  I 
 use  these  commonly  when  I  need  something 
 taller  like  the  I  need  something  like 
 the  gold  Mountain  but  I  need  something 
 taller  and  thicker  and  denser  and  these 
 are  going  to  get  great  at  4ot  tall  as  a 
 backdrop  all  behind  this  tree  and 
 they're  going  to  make  everything  to  the 
 front  now  pop  again  with  color  because 
 I've  got  green  and  yellows  here  so  this 
 is  the  time  to  do  that  beautiful  swath 
 of  blue  with  the  blue  my  minds  and 
 that's  exactly  what  it's  doing  so  you'll 
 notice  this  curves  forward  while  this 
 curves 
 backward  that  curves  that  way  those 
 curve  this  way  so  it  when  everything  is 
 grown  in  in  6  months  from  now  it's  going 
 to  really  really  look  like  one  just 
 layer  one  tier  curves  into  the  next  tier 
 and  then  there's  a  break  and  then  it's 
 also  not  just  going  to  curve  um  with 
 angles  and  um  and  well  with  angles  it's 
 also  going  to  change  in  layers  too  so 
 the  blue  my  minds  are  always  going  to  be 
 short  in  the  ground  cover  while  these 
 are  going  to  curve  at  a  4ft  curve  while 
 those  are  going  to  curve  at  a  3ft  curve 
 and  those  at  a  foot  and  A2  to  twoot  at 
 the  bottom  so  you  kind  of  see  how  we're 
 up  and  down  and  we're  doing  curves  and  I 
 think  that's  what  makes  an  interesting 
 landscape  and  then  of  course  you  can't 
 forget  what  the  what  these  guys  do  for 
 us  um  these  blue  these  uh  Blue  Agave 
 goodness  these  false 
 agave  Bryce  is  very  happy  he  knows  all 
 the  plants  and  trees  now  these  fals 
 aavees  um  do  a  fantastic  job  of  when  you 
 got  something  low  to  the  bottom  and  you 
 need  something  to  kind  of  be  structural 
 in  the  middle  these  FAL  aavees  do  just 
 that  so  that's  why  you  guys  see  them  all 
 the  time  in  my  Gardens  they  are  one  of 
 the  few  Agave  that  will  handle  more 
 water  because  a  lot  of  this  tropical 
 landscape  does  like  water  about  three 
 times  a  week  so  you  put  a  typical  Agave 
 into  that  environment  it  can  be  just  too 
 much  water  for  it  but  a  false  agave  and 
 a  fox  tail  Agave  those  two  can  really 
 really  kind  of  handle  that  much  water  in 
 a  garden 
 so  um  then  oh  how  did  I  forget  about 
 these  pretty  little  blueberry  trees  oh 
 my 
 gosh  so  we've  got  two  blueberry  trees 
 kind  of  set  back  there  again  I  couldn't 
 put  anything  too  tall  right  here  because 
 of  the  gutter  line  so  these  are  trees 
 that  are  going  to  stay  either  this 
 height  or  maybe  a  few  maybe  maybe  six 
 inches  to  a  foot  taller  just  to  give  us 
 kind  of  some  chunkiness  to  this  slender 
 um  King  Alexander  Palm  because  this  King 
 Alexander  Palm  I  want  it  to  be  a  focal 
 point  and  you  guys  and  you  girls  we  all 
 know  if  you  want  anything  to  be  a  focal 
 point  put  a  frame  around  it  and  that's 
 exactly  what  these  guys  do  I  use  these 
 blueberry  trees  to  create  that  framing 
 of  anything  that  I  want  something 
 dramatic  on  the  inside  so  this  King 
 Alexander  would  have  been  be  beautiful 
 here  by  itself  but  because  we  framed  it 
 with  the  the  blueberry  trees  and  then 
 accented  it  with  the  fals  Agave  the  the 
 trio  of  those  things  put  together  I  mean 
 it's  going  to  be  awesome  it's  going  to 
 be  beautiful  that  sometimes  it's  just 
 that  those  little  things  to  a  small  bed 
 that  make  all  the  difference  in  the 
 world  so  you  guys  all  right  so  I  said  at 
 about  1:00  it  would  start  to  happen  but 
 it's  actually  it's  actually  already 
 starting  to  get  warmed  thank  you  Bryce  I 
 was  so  excited  earlier  about  how  how 
 cool  it  was  but  maybe  I  jump  jumped  the 
 gun  a  bit  but  that  being  said  you  guys 
 see  what  I'm  wearing  the  true  Gardener 
 shirts  are  out  so  please  check  them  out 
 in  the  description  if  you  want  to  be  a 
 true  Gardener  shirt-wearing 
 subscriber  work  hard  on  them  Bry  he  said 
 he  worked  very  hard  on  on  them  the 
 fabric  is  fabulous  definitely  breathable 
 so  much  so  you  need  a  little  jacket  this 
 morning  but  now  not  so  anyway  you  guys 
 check  it  out  and  we  will  have  wine 
 glasses  if  they're  not  already  on  there 
 they  will  be  on  there  very  soon  I'm  so 
 very  excited  about  that  I  have  my  wine 
 glass  on  order  so  I'll  be  sharing  that 
 probably  in  the  next  video  so  right  here 
 we  ended  the  bed  with  a  pygmy  date  palm 
 you  guys  know  how  I  feel  about  my  pymmy 
 date  palms  I  know  they  give  a  LoveHate 
 relationship  because  of  the  Thorns  um 
 however  oh  my  goodness 
 what  what  other  tree  gives  you  that 
 Whimsy  that  kind  of  like  soft  kind  of  I 
 don't  I  don't  know  what  it  is  it's  just 
 it  feels  like  just  a  a  little  bundle  of 
 fluff  you  know  it's  perfect  for  an 
 ending  point  of  a  garden  something  that 
 you  that's  not  going  to  get  Too  Tall  or 
 too  big  but  be  the  perfect  under  canopy 
 to  a  big  tree  above  it  so  I  use  them 
 very  very  often  for  that  so  this  is  kind 
 of  like  our  ending  point  with  this  pygmy 
 day  Palm  that's  going  to  kind  of  really 
 open  up  now  it's  very  young  it's  um 
 tipping  six  foot  tall  but  it's  very  very 
 young  right  now  and  it's  going  to 
 obviously  tip  out  at  12  foot  so  12T  is 
 going  to  be  ideal  because  that's  what's 
 going  to  be  that'll  be  generally  the 
 same  size  as  what  the  triple  bottle 
 Palms  are  going  to  offer  so  we're  going 
 to  have  a  stately  feel  of  12T  by  the 
 front  12T  on  the  corner  25t  with  the 
 King  Alexander  the  level  two  trees  and 
 then  of  course  as  we  all  know  fox  tail 
 palms  are  going  to  get  into  that  28  to 
 30  foot  range  so  there  and  then  of 
 course  you  know  these  coconuts  will 
 continue  to  grow  so  we'll  always  have 
 multiple  layers  of  palm  trees  of  growth 
 all  the  way  up  and  so  that  I  think 
 that's  what  makes  this  um  that's  what's 
 going  to  make  this  front  yard  a  stunning 
 landscape  it's  very  nice  now  however 
 nowhere  nearly  as  nice  as  it's  going  to 
 be  so  I  uh  I  hope  Diane  and  Ronnie  have 
 us  back  to  to  see  what  it  looks  like  um 
 next  year  so  that  pretty  much  does  it 
 for  the  front  yard  but  let's  just  pop 
 into  the  backyard  we  did  a  small  little 
 garden  section  it's  kind  of  um  very 
 intimate  very  um  just  it's  definitely 
 very  very  petite  but  I  think  it's  such  a 
 cool  space  let  me  show  you  guys  that 
 okay  so  now  we  are  on  the  corner  section 
 of  their  yard  I  think  I  mentioned 
 earlier  that  this  is  a  corner  lot  so  um 
 their  back  pool  area  is  so  lovely  so 
 beautiful  and  they  spend  a  great  deal  of 
 time  there  um  however  it  really  is  very 
 open  to  the  main  part  of  the  roadway  as 
 you  come  into  their  neighborhood  so  so 
 this  is  their  open  space  that  um  that 
 really  really  does  show  it  just  it's  a 
 Viewpoint  right  into  right  into  the  um 
 into  the  pool  area  so  we  kind  of  tossed 
 around  a  couple  things  um  my  clients 
 wanted  originally  to  maybe  put  a  big 
 fence  here  but  was  not  sure  if  the  HOA 
 was  going  to  allow  a  giant  fence  on  this 
 main  corner  lot  area  so  I  thought  let's 
 start  out  with  the  clusia  Hedge  here 
 just  kind  of  give  them  a  little  bit  of 
 protection  from  when  they're  inside  to 
 make  it  a  little  bit  more  more  like  a 
 courtyard  space  so  we're  um  so  I  took 
 out  their  current  hedge  that  just  kind 
 of  L  and  went  straight  down  like  this 
 and  I'll  show  you  a  before  picture  of 
 what  that  looked  like  but  um  and  put  in 
 a  kusia  hedge  they're  going  to  put  in  a 
 lovely  gate  that's  going  to  go  right 
 here  to  make  this  look  like  a  little 
 secret  garden  which  is  just  so  up  my 
 alley  it's  so  Charming  um  so  we're  going 
 to  have  a  nice  gate  and  when  you  do  a 
 gate  you  guys  you  guys  know  I  have  to  do 
 a  walkway  so  we  just  did  a  nice  little 
 walkway  with  some  plantings  on  both  both 
 side  now  when  this  kusia  hedge  that 
 wraps  around  here  gets  nice  and  solid 
 and  clean  right  now  it's  still  wonky 
 from  being  a  new  planting  but  is  going 
 to  be  very  very  solid  like  they  tend  to 
 do  and  really  give  them  that  private 
 wall  here  of  about  8  to  10  foot  I  think 
 is  what  they're  going  to  do  because  they 
 really  wanted  to  soften  the  space  this 
 is  deian  gry  granite  nice  walkway  path 
 leading  right  up  to  their  stepping  pad 
 Diane's  allowed  us  to  to  take  a  peek 
 from  inside 
 and  that  way  you  guys  really  get  a  good 
 glimpse  of  what  this  looks  like  from 
 from  indoors  so  this  is  their  lovely 
 pool  area  um  and  I  could  see  why  they 
 spend  so  much  time  here  I  think  I  would 
 spend  every  minute  here  this  is  just  so 
 gorgeous  so  keep  in  mind  you  guys  that 
 there  was  not  a  lot  of  space  to  work 
 with  because  this  really  goes  down  on  a 
 slant  but  if  you  can  see  from  in  here 
 look  at  the  look  at  the  the  traffic  that 
 comes  through 
 here  that  truck  was  a  paid 
 actor  truck  was  a  paid  actor  man  it  was 
 on  time  um  but  so  and  what  you  do  see  is 
 the  two-story  house  directly  across  the 
 street  now  funny  enough  that  was  the 
 previous  owners  um  they're  very  good 
 friends  and  um  they  had  built  a  house 
 over  there  and  put  in  some  lovely 
 Landscaping  themselves  and  so  what  we 
 wanted  to  do  was  soften  the  roadway  and 
 maybe  even  soften  the  top  part  of  that 
 um  of  that  house  so  that  way  this  does 
 feel  very  very  cozy  when  they're 
 enjoying  this  space  they  have  a  lot  of 
 seating  in  this  this  this  little  area 
 and  I  can  see  why  I  can  see  why  they 
 enjoy  it  so  much  so  we  wanted  to  um  to 
 make  sure  to  give  them  every  square  inch 
 because  that's  what  our  yards  are 
 supposed  to  do  for  us  it's  supposed  to 
 supposed  to  give  us  every  square  inch  of 
 of  you  know  peace  and  relaxation  and 
 enjoyment  and  so  we  took  took  this 
 little  bit  of  area  and  I  think  once 
 everything  grows  in  this  double  fox  tail 
 is  going  to  just  be  so  tropical  and  so 
 relaxing  from  inside  seeing  it  sway  this 
 kusia  hedge  is  going  to  be  that  nice  8 
 to  10ft  wall  behind  them  which  is  pretty 
 much  going  to  completely  block  out  that 
 road  they're  going  to  put  a  Charming 
 gate  right  there  and  then  there's  just  a 
 little  bit  of  Landscaping  on  both  sides 
 of  the  pathway  and  I  just  think  that 
 that's  going  to  be  so  so  Charming  um 
 we've  got  another  coconut  palm  because 
 Ronnie  loves  the  coconut  palms  out  front 
 we  tilted  it  backwards  so  it's  angled 
 kind  of  down  the  slope  so  it  can  hook 
 and  curve  this  way  cannot  wait  for  wait 
 to  see  that  happen  and  then  just  a 
 little  bit  of  fire  bush  so  that  way  we 
 get  some  natural  um  I  mean  we  get  some 
 little  butterflies  and  some  hummingbirds 
 and  you  know  just  some  some  visitors 
 that  are  going  to  stop  by  and  and  enjoy 
 the  flowers  and  blooms  and  nectar  on 
 those  guys  um  the  rest  of  it  is  pretty 
 much  just  kind  of  what  I  call  lipstick 
 and  mascara  of  something  so  it's  kind  of 
 the  the  Beautiful  quarter  lines  to  give 
 them  pops  of  color  they're  going  to  need 
 that  once  those  kusas  get  tall  because 
 those  kusas  are  going  to  kind  of  take 
 away  some  of  the  bright  light  there  so 
 having  some  of  this  bright  coloration 
 and  dark  coloration  I  think  is  going  to 
 be  really  really  pretty  once  the  garden 
 is  established  so  you  guys  have  to  let 
 me  know  what  you  think  so  I  thought  it 
 was  a  the  best  way  to  use  this  little 
 bit  of  space  but  there  you  have  it  oh 
 there  he  is  again  all  right  you  guys  so 
 I  hope  you  enjoyed  today's  video  I  hope 
 it  shed  some  light  on  you  know 
 Landscaping  a  front  yard  gave  you  some 
 good  ideas  um  please  comment  true 
 Gardener  if  you  made  it  through  this 
 video  because  you  are  a  true  Gardener 
 and  I  cannot  tell  you  guys  how  much  I 
 enjoy  seeing  your  comments  as  as  we're 
 reading  through  them  and  discussing  them 
 and  answering  questions  and  it's  just  I 
 just  feel  so  so  blessed  to  be  able  to 
 share  these  projects  with  you  guys  share 
 um  any  of  my  thoughts  on  on  plants  and 
 trees  and  then  some  of  the  the  great 
 comments  and  the  great  points  that  you 
 guys  make  um  on  these  videos  I  just  I  I 
 I  just  I'm  I'm  so  grateful  to  have  such 
 a  fantastic  Community  to  bounce  things 
 back  off  of  so  anyway  so  I  really  really 
 hope  you  enjoy  the  content  today  um  if 
 this  is  kind  of  the  thing  that  you  like 
 and  you're  not  a  subscriber  then  please 
 subscribe  and  you'll  see  me  once  a  week 
 come  through  join  the  community  that's 
 right  Bryce  said  join  the  community  and 
 then  um  I  will  um  post  a  video  somewhere 
 over  here  of  our  latest  project  if  this 
 is  something  that  you  like  you  really 
 enjoy  that  one  it  was  a  pool  project 
 that  we  finished  and  it's  fabulous 
 turned  out  lovely  so  hopefully  that'll 
 give  you  some  good  ideas  see  you  guys  in 
 the  next  video

---

 so  hey  gardeners  so  I  happen  to  be 
 across  the  street  from  a  project  that  we 
 finished  um  gosh  months  and  months  ago 
 and  I  know  we  did  a  video  on  it  a  while 
 back  but  I  um  I'm  over  here  checking  on 
 things  while  they're  out  of  the  state 
 and  I  thought  gosh  let  me  just  pull  this 
 camera  out  and  just  do  a  quick  little 
 walk  around  and  share  it  with  you  guys 
 because  as  soon  as  I  walked  back  here  it 
 made  me  smile  so  I  thought  I  would  do  a 
 quick  video  tour  kind  of  a  little  update 
 I'll  be  sure  to  link  the  full  video  in 
 the  description  so  that  way  you  guys  or 
 link  it  somewhere  here  on  the  screen  so 
 that  way  if  you  guys  want  to  know  more 
 about  these  plants  and  trees  that  you're 
 going  to  see  here  in  this  video  then 
 definitely  check  out  that  video  but  this 
 is  months  later  things  have  really  grown 
 in  even  though  we've  had  two  pretty 
 significant  um  hurricanes  things  are 
 just  looking  Lush  and  tropical  so  we're 
 in  Palm  Beach  Florida  Today  a  little 
 further  south  than  I  normally  go  but  my 
 clients  have  just  been  so  fabulous  to 
 work  with  and  I  just  I  I  I  just  love 
 popping  in  over  this  area  so  we  were 
 able  to  accomplish  a  beautiful  backyard 
 Resort  for  them  and  it's  growing  in 
 lovely  so  I'm  taking  my  true  Gardener 
 friends  and  family  along  to  just  do  a 
 little  quick  you  know  kind  of  happy  kind 
 of  Saturday  walkr  so  I  hope  you  guys 
 enjoy  it  I  feel  like  I  should  whisper 
 because  I  guess  we're  out  here  just 
 toring  the  garden  by  oursel  um  but  I 
 thought  um  I  thought  you  guys  might 
 enjoy  it  and  appreciate  it  so  I'm  just 
 going  to  do  a  quick  little  walk  around 
 and  uh  and  share  the  updates  with  you 
 guys  so  I  will  see  you  in  the  very  next 
 video  here  we  are  you  guys  this  is  the 
 driveway  walkway  leading  to  the  back 
 side  section  you  may  remember  this  from 
 the  previous  video  I  love  that  we're  I 
 feel  like  it's  palm  tree  alley  here  like 
 we're  walking  up  underneath  the  palm 
 trees  to  come  up  to  the  backyard  space 
 it's  just  so  awesome  I  love  how  shiny 
 and  gorgeous  these  tree  jasms  are 
 looking  just  so  stunning  right  there  by 
 themselves  really  really  anchoring  that 
 sidey  yard  section  and  then  you  come  up 
 underneath  the  palm  trees  as  you  enter 
 the  SP  face  oh  my  goodness  I  just  every 
 time  I  come  back  here  I  like  saigh  this 
 is  just  so  nice  so  relaxing  we're 
 walking  up  underneath  the  Palms  we've 
 got  a  triple  fox  tail  Palm  on  the  left 
 and  a  nice  chunky  single  fox  tail  on  the 
 right  and  then  this  bed  has  several  fox 
 tails  kind  of  staggered  in  here  I'm 
 sorry  I  know  my  camera  work  is  nowhere 
 nearly  as  good  as  Bryce  is  we've  got 
 some  backing  and  some  gorgeous  Royal 
 Palms 
 you  would  not  know  that  these  trees  and 
 plants  took  a  bit  of  a  beating  from 
 those  storms  but  they  have  done  so  well 
 just  look  at  how  beautiful  and  gorgeous 
 these  plants  how  nice  and 
 compact  I  am  so  giving  John  and  Claudia 
 an  a  for  keeping  things  just  stunning 
 despite  Florida 
 weather  I  hope  I'm  not  going  too  fast 
 for  you 
 guys  look  at  that  LE  Leaf  C  color  on 
 that  golden  Dew  for  such  a  typical  basic 
 plant  I  just  think  it  offers  such  a 
 gorgeous  look  when  it's  paired  with 
 something  so  dark  like  the  ice  tone 
 croin  to  the  left  and  the  mango  croin  on 
 the 
 right  so  you  can  kind  of  see  my  pattern 
 and  how  it  works  we  go  from  dark  to 
 light  to  dark  to 
 light  we  got  this  is  a  centerpiece  and 
 then  we've  got  a  nice  clustering  of 
 golden  Sedum  at  the  bottom 
 and  this  little  just  clean  little  bed 
 just  works  so  nicely  in  this  spot  and 
 then  Claudia's  got  her  lovely  orchids 
 here  and  that  tree  Jasmine  to  the  back 
 is  just  a  nice  backdrop  you  see  you  got 
 a  little  bit  little  bit  of  Leaning  from 
 the 
 [Music] 
 storm  but  look  at  that  just  so  pretty 
 we  have  a  very  similar  o  sorry  you  guys 
 it's  my  camera  work  for  you  very 
 [Music] 
 similar  palm  tree  grouping 
 there  and  then  the  backdrop  to  their 
 pergola  those  King  Alexanders  on  either 
 side  of  the  pergola  are  just  stunning 
 kind  of  giving  us  some  nice  flanking 
 that  coconut  palm  that  was  so  young  when 
 we  put  it  in  look  at  how  well  it's  doing 
 it's  really  anchoring  that  corner  the 
 only  thing  that  hasn't  kind  of  come  up 
 yet  are  those  Brazilian  Red  cloaks  I 
 cannot  wait  until  they  get  89t  tall  and 
 Bloom  that  bright  red  flower  color 
 they're  blooming  the  last  time  I  was 
 here  but  I'm  not  seeing  any  color  on 
 them  right  now  of  course  we're  in  late 
 November  so  they're  okay  it's  okay  not 
 to  bloom  I 
 guess  little  pops  of  lights  and  darks 
 s  around  this  plant 
 grouping  you  kind  of  see  how  we've  we 
 have  a  nice  combination  of  light  and 
 dark  so  when  you  guys  are  doing  your 
 planting  kind  of  just  keep  that  in  mind 
 because  I  feel  like  that  gives  us  just 
 so  much  Showmanship  in  the  garden  you 
 know  like  we've  got  the  dark  ice  tone 
 croin  there  and  then  we've  got  the 
 sloppy  painters  going  here  which 
 brighten  that  up  and  then  we  go  back  to 
 the  Brazilian  Red  cloaks  there  now  if 
 they  were  and  Bloom  they  would  offer 
 brightness  and  darkness  which  is  pretty 
 phenomenal  and  then  down  below  we  have 
 the  songs  of  India  here  to  give  us  some 
 brightness  again  and  then  we  go  into  the 
 mamy 
 croin  and  then  they're  backed  by  the 
 sesia  in  the  back  they  give  you  that 
 variegated  yellow  and  green  leaf  which 
 is  I  think  just  awesome  and  these  right 
 here  this  plant  grouping  this  whole 
 combination  this  is  these  are  things 
 that  you  can  get  from  your  typical  Big 
 Box  store  your  nurseries  your  you  know 
 your  your  local  areas  in  Florida  they're 
 not  anything  major  I  mean  we  got 
 something  as  simple  as  green  arbra  Cola 
 in  the  back  so  it's  really  it's  just  a 
 it's  just  a  matter  of  clustering  them 
 with  nice  grouping  clusters  so  you  have 
 a  big  impact  of  color  and  then  you  can 
 go  with  something  like  you  know  these 
 magnificent  croin  in  the  back  that  are 
 15  Gall  so  some  nice  good  size  there  and 
 then  we  paired  them  on  the  bottom  to 
 kind  of  give  us  a  little  division 
 between  color  let  see  if  I  can  get  that 
 on  the  camera  there  color  of  the  mam  cro 
 to  the  Congo  croin  there  then  to  give  us 
 a  division  we've  got  some  Burl  marks 
 there  to  kind  of  really  really  make  make 
 those  colors  pop  and  not  overtake  one 
 another  hopefully  this  gives  a  better 
 better 
 angle  and  then  they  just  kind  of  do  a 
 little  swath  in  that  middle  those  Burl 
 marks  do  and  then  of  course  these  gold 
 Mound  I  know  people  look  at  gold  Mound 
 sometimes  in  their  life  H  they're  really 
 nothing  to  show  you  know  they're  not  big 
 or  a  lot  of  impact  but  what  they  do 
 offer  is  that  bright  spot  and  it  almost 
 like  it  it  gives  your  eye  that  instant 
 place  to  rest  so  I  think  they're  so 
 important  to  the  garden  they're  like 
 that  that  awesomely  supportive  friend 
 that  you  need  they're  always  there 
 they're  stable  they  make  everybody  else 
 really  comfortable  and  happy  and  they 
 definitely  show  help  show  off  a  dark 
 plant  around  it  so  and  then  of  course 
 we've  got  the  ground  cover  of  the  laia 
 which  is  another  just  kind  of  perfect 
 companion  to  a  plant  grouping  so  but  I 
 think  that  that's  what's  going  to  be  so 
 exciting  about  the  getting  the  book  out 
 because  Bryce  and  I  are  really  really 
 enjoying  not  just  talking  about  the 
 plants  and  trees  in  the  book  but  we're 
 also  mentioning  you  know  companion 
 plants  cuz  I  think  that  is  so  important 
 in  a  Florida  garden  is  being  able  to 
 take  um  this  plant  and  saying  okay  this 
 plant  is  beautiful  in  its  own  right  but 
 pair  it  with  this  one  this  one  this  one 
 and  you're  going  to  really  see  how  that 
 pops  and  how  those  layers  come  together 
 and  I  think  that  that's  kind  of  what 
 sometimes  gets  missed  when  I  see  a  lot 
 of  the  the  typical  Gardens  that  I  I  walk 
 through  so  being  able  to  see  um  what 
 works  well  together  what  stays  where 
 it's  supposed  to  stay  which  is  unusual 
 for  Florida  plants  and  then  what  is 
 going  to  grow  in  beautifully  and  create 
 that  Lush  maybe  buffer  that  you're 
 looking  for  so  you  kind  of  need  the  Best 
 of  Both  Worlds  but  hopefully  um 
 hopefully  it  comes  across  that  way  on 
 the  page  that  Our  intention  all  right 
 you  guys  so  thank  you  so  much  for 
 joining  me  on  this  morning  and  I'm  so 
 glad  to  share  this  garden  with  you  guys 
 I'm  so  so  glad  to  share  this  garden  with 
 with  you  know  a  whole  group  of  people 
 that  I  know  appreciate  it  and  um  you 
 know  enjoy  the  love  of  plants  and  trees 
 like  I  do  I  just  feel  like  I  get  the 
 best  of  both  worlds  in  that  way  so  thank 
 you  so  much  hope  you  guys  all  have  a 
 fantastic  holiday  season  and  I  will  see 
 you  in  the  next  video  take  care

---

 hey  so  welcome  back  gardeners  today  we 
 are  in  Palm  City  Florida  again  it's 
 Bryce  and  I  and  we  are  sharing  with  you 
 guys  a  project  that  we  did  a  couple 
 months  ago  um  it  is  a  front  yard  Rel 
 landscape  and  I  think  this  is  going  to 
 be  a  very  very  helpful  video  for  a  lot 
 of  you  guys  who  might  have  a  similar 
 situation  of  a  traditional  Builder 
 package  that  was  brought  into  your  new 
 landscape  and  you  like  it  maybe  you 
 don't  but  there's  some  things  in  there 
 that  you  could  work  with  and  you're 
 looking  to  find  a  way  to  um  make  it  a 
 little  bit  more  interesting  make  it  a 
 little  bit  more  you  make  it  a  little  bit 
 um  it  just  more  of  that  spice  it  up  a 
 little  bit  like  Bry  said  spice  it  up  a 
 little  bit  so  I  hope  you  can  take  that 
 away  from  this  video  today  we're  going 
 to  share  with  you  what  we  kept  in  the 
 garden  what  um  what  we  incorporated  to 
 make  it  a  little  bit  a  little  bit 
 jazzier  a  little  bit  more  interesting 
 and  um  as  just  like  I  always  do  we're 
 going  to  talk  about  um  the  name  of  the 
 plants  and  the  trees  and  a  little  bit  of 
 detail  about  each  one  of  them  so  that 
 way  if  you  guys  are  looking  to  create  a 
 shopping  list  this  is  going  to  help  you 
 do  just  that  so  speaking  of  shopping 
 lists  I  want  to  pop  on  here  and  let  you 
 guys  know  that  I'm  happy  to  announce 
 that  our  true  Gardener  t-shirts  are  out 
 and  available  as  well  as  our  hats  and 
 coffee  mugs  and  cck  wine  glasses  I  am  so 
 thrilled  about  that  just  in  time  for 
 Christmas  so  you  guys  check  them  out 
 they  will  be  in  the  link  down  in  the 
 description  and  I  uh  I  hope  you  guys 
 enjoy  them  and  share  them  with  your  true 
 Gardener  friends  so  take  care  so  as 
 always  let's  Jump  Right  In  and  and  we 
 will  just  kind  of  walk  through  this 
 lovely  Garden  so  I  want  to  thank  Laura 
 for  allowing  us  to  come  over  and  um 
 share  this  garden  with  with  everyone  she 
 has  been  so  fabulous  and  she's  so 
 thrilled  with  the  final  outcome  because 
 we  used  I  would  say  I  would  say  80%  of 
 her  existing  material  and  reincorporated 
 it  and  then  added  to  it  and  made  it  like 
 I  said  more  interesting  and  so  she's  um 
 she  was  just  so  thrilled  that  was  that 
 was  a  possibility  because  you  guys  are 
 if  you're  just  like  me  you  know  you  know 
 you  don't  want  to  waste  you  know  some 
 material  that  you  have  or  waste  what's 
 going  on  in  your  garden  you  want  to  kind 
 of  just  work  with  it  and  kind  of 
 reintroduce  it  in  a  way  that  it's  just 
 going  to  it's  just  going  to  fit  you  so 
 um  so  I  think  Laura  was  really  really 
 pleased  that  we  were  able  to  do  that  in 
 her  space  so  so  let's  start  off  so  she 
 has  a  beautiful  driveway  here  that  comes 
 up  to  a  fairly  short  walkway  now  this 
 rock  pad  was  already  here  in  place  um 
 previous  to  us  getting  here  and  I 
 thought  other  than  the  fact  that  it  was 
 a  little  squared  off  I  thought  that  it 
 was  going  to  we're  just  going  to  work 
 with  it  because  it's  here  it's  in  place 
 she's  paid  for  it  and  um  let's  let's 
 just  go  with  it  now  I  did  try  to  soften 
 all  the  squared  and  hard  edges  by  making 
 sure  that  the  new  plant  material  or  the 
 new  beds  were  going  to  curve  and  have  a 
 little  bit  more  interest  so  I  think  it 
 was  kind  of  a  a  nice  mix  of  that  so 
 that's  exactly  what  we  did  so  this  fox 
 tail  Palm  which  you  guys  know  how  I  feel 
 about  fox  tail  palms  this  fox  tail  Palm 
 was  here  it  was  in  place  when  um  when  we 
 were  um  when  we  first  got  here  so  it  is 
 a  good  size  so  we  kept  it  in  exactly 
 this  location  um  and  then  we  took  this 
 bed  that  was  originally  quite  large  it 
 originally  came  and  I'll  get  Bryce  to 
 slide  in  the  before  pictures  but  it 
 originally  came  in  came  straight  across 
 here  and  kind  of  did  a  weird  little 
 angle  right  to  the  corner  of  the  house 
 which  made  it  just  really  really  heavy 
 in  this  front  yard  space  and  if  you  guys 
 have  a  house  that's  kind  of  similar 
 where  it's  kind  of  short  and  um  ends 
 kind  of  bluntly  on  the  corner  and  maybe 
 the  the  the  driveway  or  garage  area  is 
 so  big  and  heavy  that  there  can  there 
 tends  to  be  a  little  bit  of  a 
 lopsidedness  the  thing  you  want  to  try 
 to  do  is  draw  the  bed  out  to  the  to  the 
 right  more  to  kind  of  give  more  weight 
 so  that  way  it  kind  of  helps  balance  all 
 of  this  hard  structure  that's  going  on 
 here  with  some  impact  that's  going  on 
 here  and  I  think  that  that's  exactly 
 what  we  were  able  to  do  so  we  put  in 
 this  double  fox  tail  Palm  because  she 
 loves  these  clean  line  palms  and  I  think 
 it  does  a  nice  job  of  kind  of  giving  us 
 a  perfect  anchor  in  time  this  tree  and 
 this  tree  are  really  going  to  be  more  in 
 line  with  that  Center  entrance  area  to 
 her  house  which  is  going  to  give  it  that 
 column  like  feel  that  really  really  nice 
 where  it  goes  upright  on  each  edges  of 
 the  property  and  it's  just  really  going 
 to  kind  of  give  that  anchoring  type  of 
 look  so  nice  nice  big  columns  that 
 they're  going  to  offer  now  originally 
 she  had  a  Sylvester  palm  that  was  that 
 was  kind  of  right  about  I  think  it  was 
 like  right  here  originally  cuz  I  can  see 
 the  new  grass  line  but  somewhere  around 
 here  and  it  was  just  to  too  much  of  an 
 aggressive  palm  tree  to  be  in  this  space 
 you  know  it  just  kind  of  took  over  this 
 spot  here  so  what  we  did  is  we  relocated 
 it  as  a  backdrop  tree  to  this  rear 
 corner  over  here  at  the  almost  extent  of 
 her  property  line  so  right  at  the  corner 
 of  her  property  line  this  is  going  to  do 
 a  fabulous  job  of  anchoring  it  and  I 
 think  it's  I  think  it's  a  perfect  fit 
 for  there  as  a  backdrop  to  this  tree  I 
 just  love  the  way  that 
 looks  and  then  then  we  start  with  our 
 layers  you  guys  we  have  some  kusia  as  a 
 backdrop  you  know  how  I  love  the  look  of 
 kusia  as  a  backdrop  to  anything  bright 
 so  we  have  the  dark  kusia  here  and  we 
 have  the  sloppy  painter  clustering  right 
 here  so  that  really  does  a  nice  job  of 
 giving  us  a  a  bit  of  brightness  so  dark 
 light  dark  with  the  mamy  croin  up  front 
 now  these  sloppy  painters  we  brought  in 
 the  mam  crotin  were  hers  from  the 
 original  plan  but  what  she  had  was  M 
 crotin  it  was  like  endless  rows  of  M 
 croin  so  she  had  tons  of  them  that  came 
 across  the  front  through  here  and  all  we 
 did  was  we  did  a  cluster  that  swerved 
 this  way  and  then  we  added  a  cluster  of 
 sloppy  painters  that  curved  around  that 
 way  and  then  there's  a  break  there  then 
 we  come  in  with  cleaner  material  more 
 compact  more  easy  just  um  slower  growing 
 right  in  this  area  underneath  this 
 window  cuz  you  just  didn't  we  didn't 
 want  this  to  get  too  crazy  so  right  here 
 we  have  um  dwarf  kcia  just  a  small 
 little  grouping  of  four  there  then 
 there's  a  break  then  we  have  some  gold 
 Mound  right  across  the  front  some  gold 
 dust  to  the  back  to  brighten  up  that 
 rear  side  there  and  then  a  little 
 clustering  again  of  some  dwarf  cloas  to 
 the  left  side  of  the  palm  tree  there 
 just  so  it's  kind  of  a  rinse  and  repeat 
 pattern  here  and  it  you  know  and  it 
 looks  good  but  it's  not  rows  it's  a 
 cluster  a  cluster  a  cluster  and  anytime 
 I  can  take  those  clusters  and  curve  them 
 this  way  take  the  other  cluster  and 
 curve  them  that  way  as  it  grows  in  oh  my 
 gosh  you  guys  it's  just  it's  just  so 
 stunning  I  just  love  to  see  a  matured 
 look  of  that  and  now  you  see  that  a  lot 
 in  in  hotels  and  garden  Plains  and 
 things  like  that  because  I  really  think 
 they  know  how  to  make  how  to  make  you 
 Swoon  when  you  look  at  it  I  just  think 
 it's  so  pretty  um  this  is  a  triple 
 bottle  Palm  I  know  that  um  you  guys  have 
 seen  them  in  some  recent  Landscapes  I 
 got  a  few  dozen  of  these  um  when  I  was 
 able  to  get  my  hands  on  them  I've  got 
 two  left  so  I'm  being  very  very  cautious 
 about  where  I  can  plant  them  because  I 
 love  them  so  much  they  look  beautiful 
 when  they're  planted  but  this  is  just 
 the  beginning  this  tree  is  going  to 
 really  widen  out  on  these  curves  on 
 these  Trunks  and  just  become  just  this 
 this  focal  point  along  this  Blank  Spot 
 of  the  front  of  this  house  and  it's 
 never  going  to  get  or  compete  with  these 
 big  giant  trees  up  here  it's  always 
 always  going  to  stay  that  13  14t  height 
 which  is  going  to  give  it  the  ideal  look 
 um  in  this  front  space  it's  never  going 
 to  come  over  into  this  way  or  over  to 
 that  way  it's  just  going  to  stay  in 
 between  this  column  like  look  and  become 
 become  the  the  center  of  the  frame  that 
 it  was  meant  to  be  which  which  is  what 
 makes  them  one  of  my  favorite  trees  to 
 work  with 
 so  FAL 
 seavees  because  you  can't  you  can't  ever 
 go  wrong  with  FAL  seavees  so  when  you 
 have  this  combination  of  small  small 
 plantings  I  mean  this  is  these  are  these 
 are  non-aggressive  plants  for  the  most 
 part  these  gold  Mounds  these  dwarf  cuses 
 these  gold  dusts  those  are  all  plants 
 that  are  always  going  to  remain  more  in 
 a  compact  fashion  and  their  benefits  are 
 just  that  they  remain  a  compact  fashion 
 um  so  very  very  easy  to  care  for  very 
 very  low  maintenance  but  also  can  be  on 
 the  side  of  being  dull  so  if  you  don't 
 kind  of  use  something  to  to  Jazz  them  up 
 to  give  them  more  impact  or  more  um  just 
 you  know  a  little  bit  more  spice  than  um 
 like  Bryce  says  then  um  then  you  have  a 
 tendency  where  it  could  get  more  bland 
 in  this  middle  so  having  these  guys  is 
 going  to  do  a  fantastic  job  especially 
 as  this  tree  grows  and  these  grow  up  and 
 become  more  vertical  versus  wide  then 
 now  all  of  this  can  be  very  M  manicured 
 and  very  wellmaintained  back  here  and 
 then  these  three  features  alone  are 
 going  to  just  make  the  space  you  might 
 not  even  recognize  what's  back  here  it 
 just  might  be  more  of  a  a  solid  grouping 
 of  of  light  and  darks  but  it'll  just  go 
 so  well  together  because  you'll  have  the 
 Dynamics  pop  out  of  the  middle  of  them 
 and  the  reason  why  those  kind  of  things 
 are  more  important  than  something  like 
 the  sloppy  painter  is  because  if  I  were 
 to  use  those  over  there  they  wouldn't 
 stand  out  nearly  as  much  and  the  sloppy 
 painter  would  take  over  that  environment 
 too  much  for  those  to  pop  so  that's  why 
 anytime  you  see  any  kind  of  dwarf 
 material  or  smaller  slow  growing 
 material  I'll  use  I'll  balance  that  out 
 with  even  smaller  or  more  compact 
 material  in  the  lower  realm  gosh  I  hope 
 that  makes  sense  so  um  if  you  have  a 
 question  about  that  leave  in  the 
 comments  um  so  here  we  are  again  we've 
 got  a  bright  spot  of  color  here  with  the 
 mamy  croin  so  we've  reused  her  Mam  croin 
 and  then  um  again  a  nice  grouping  a  nice 
 swath  of  these  crazy  sloppy  painters  so 
 that  way  we  have  a  bit  of  wildness  you 
 know  we  have  a  very  contained  blue  my 
 mind  a  very  contained  tahan  or  excuse  me 
 Taiwan  Taiwanese  exor  and  then  it  we 
 have  something  else  that's  more  hedge 
 likee  here  would  that  work  yes  but 
 jazzing  up  the  textures  I  just  think  it 
 makes  it  look  way  way  more  interesting 
 so  it's  a  little  wild  and  crazy  in  the 
 back  way  more  manicured  in  the  front  and 
 then  of  course  we  have  the  focal  point 
 popping  out  of  the  middle  of  it  with  the 
 with  the  fox  tail  Palm  so  so  that  um 
 pretty  much  gives  you  a  pretty  e  easy 
 even  Keel  kind  of  front  bed  that  has  a 
 little  bit  of  thick  and  craziness  on 
 each  Edge  but  right  where  it  counts  in 
 the  middle  very  very  controlled  very 
 very  clean  and  that  fit  the  style  of  my 
 clients  Laura  wanted  it  to  be  very  clean 
 lines  very  tropical  with  color  but  not 
 um  gosh  you  because  I  just  didn't  want 
 it  wild  and  crazy  with  burm  milads 
 everywhere  gab's  everywhere  you  know 
 just  a  bunch  of  palm  groupings  um  so  I 
 think  we  hit  a  nice  happy  medium  where 
 it  gave  her  interest  Tropics  but  clean 
 lines  we're  going  to  take  a  quick  peek 
 over  here  on  the  corner  and  that  way  you 
 guys  get  to  see  what  that  looks  like  we 
 didn't  really  have  anything  significant 
 Palm  wise  to  work  with  so  we  brought  in 
 some  really  nice  Majestic  Foxdale  Palms 
 um  I  just  I  loved  the  anchoring  they  did 
 I  felt  like  gosh  if  we  have  that  double 
 fox  tail  on  the  opposite  side  and  then 
 we  relocated  that  Sylvester  palm  to  the 
 back  we  needed  something  here  with  some 
 weight  some  something  here  with  some 
 impact  that's  going  to  kind  of  give  that 
 um  that  that  exact  anchor  on  each  side 
 um  from  that  from  you  know  kind  of 
 helping  bring  out  that  middle  more  um  so 
 and  I  think  they're  doing  I  they're 
 doing  just  that  I  absolutely  love  the 
 way  they  look  on  this  side  we  did  fill 
 the  center  of  those  two  with  a  weeping 
 bottle  brush  tree  um  this  guy  is  fairly 
 young  and  compact  um  right  now  but  he's 
 really  going  to  open 
 up  and  weep  out  this  way  this  way  and 
 this  way  filling  between  these  two  trees 
 that  is  so  so  so  beautiful  I  just  love 
 the  way  they  do  that  now  if  you  you  guys 
 have  noticed  these  giant  kind  of 
 Treehouse  staks  here  this  is  from  the 
 recent  storms  we  did  a  recent  video  um 
 gosh  about  a  month  ago  um  with  the  the 
 storms  that  came  through  and  kind  of  how 
 to  do  this  and  uh  just  a  little  bit  of  a 
 description  of  the  best  way  to  protect 
 your  trees  we  had  put  these  in  and  then 
 a  week  later  the  storms  came  so  was  it 
 was  it  was  a  fantastic  test  um  that  that 
 they  did  pass  um  and  um  look  at 
 everything  you  guys  this  just  a 
 testament  to  Florida  tropical  plants 
 Bryce  and  I  will  actually  walk  back 
 there  in  the  backyard  and  share  a  quick 
 glimpse  of  what  that  looks  like  back 
 there  so  you  guys  can  just  see  just  how 
 durable  all  of  these  plants  handled  a 
 two  hurricanes  that  came  through  um  back 
 to  back  yes  yes  we  had  it  was  it  was 
 pretty  intense  but  um  I  mean  we  were 
 fortunate  not  to  get  what  the  West  Coast 
 got  we  did  get  some  serious  wind  and 
 some  serious  tornadoes  that  happened 
 over  in  this  area  but  um  fortunately  um 
 it  was  just  a  little  bit  of  wind  burn 
 and  I  see  new  growth  all  over  these 
 plants  and  trees  so  that  is  just  that's 
 a  testament  to  do  not  be  afraid  to 
 landscape  your  space  because  of  of 
 storms  I  hear  that  pretty  often  I'm 
 going  to  wait  after  Hurricane  Season  I 
 get  it  it  can  be  scary  but  ultimately 
 these  plants  and  trees  they  just  rebound 
 right  from  that  and  with  a  little  bit  of 
 care  a  little  bit  of  extra  love  it  is 
 well  well  worth  it  because  uh  you  know 
 it's  such  an  enjoyment  to  have  a  a 
 beautiful  garden  and  you  know  I  think 
 that  it's  it's  worth  it  doing  any  time 
 of  the  year  now  I  would  say  these  exor 
 these  magnificent  cro  crottin  over  here 
 um  those  guys  there  these  chilas  all  of 
 that  was  from  the  existing  landscape  and 
 all  we  did  was  pick  it  up  and  repurpose 
 it  in  different  groups  cuz  it  had  more 
 of  a  mass  planting  these  guys  again  were 
 everywhere  so  we  used  some  of  them  in 
 the  back  and  we  used  the  rest  of  them 
 here  so  you'll  notice  I  have  just  a  big 
 curve  of  those  they  kind  of  start  right 
 at  the  driveway  area  area  and  then  curve 
 around  in  the  back  and  angle  back  this 
 way  and  the  reason  why  I  chose  to  curve 
 those  is  because  when  these  guys  get  big 
 and  happy  they  are  um  just  a  big 
 beautiful  cluster  of  color  the  only 
 negative  to  them  is  they  get  a  little 
 Woody  at  the  bottom  so  you  get  that  you 
 know  foot  foot  and  a  half  of  wood 
 and  sorry  you  guys  I'm  fighting  a  cold 
 but  um  the  what  the  reason  why  I  love  to 
 skirt  plantings  like  this  is  because 
 with  these  magnificent  croin  you'll  get 
 a  little  bit  of  that  wood  at  the  bottom 
 so  this  will  do  a  good  J  job  of  covering 
 them  and  only  leaving  that  beautiful 
 color  at  the  top  so  right  now  they're  a 
 little  ped  out  where  they  were  in  the 
 original  landscape  was  pulled  up  forward 
 in  this  big  open  group  with  no 
 protection  and  if  you  guys  I  know  some 
 of  you  gardeners  out  there  know  that's  a 
 big  no  no  for  magnificent  crotin 
 magnificent  crotin  like  filtered  light 
 they  can  handle  all  morning  sun  early 
 afternoon  sun  but  that  late  afternoon 
 sun  they're  out  so  these  guys  handle  it 
 really  really  well  underneath  this 
 grouping  of  trees  it's  going  to  be  a 
 perfect  perfect  spot  for  them  to  thrive 
 so  we  have  them  here  for  future  growth  a 
 nice  4ft  height  and  then  we've  got  a 
 nice  skirt  in  front  of  them  with  the 
 dwarf  exor  to  kind  of  camouflage  what  we 
 don't  want  to  see  and  then  we  brought  in 
 the  fals  Agave  on  this  corner  so  that 
 way  from  the  road  you  see  the  two  that 
 are  over  there  and  the  one  that  anchors 
 this  corner  here  and  then  again  it's  a 
 rinse  and  repeat  a  similar  material  so 
 we  already  have  the  yellow  of  the 
 chilera  like  we  have  the  yellow  of  the 
 sloppy  painters  so  we  kept  her  chiil  for 
 that  reason  and  then  we  brought  in  a 
 little  bit  of  gold  Mound  a  little  bit  of 
 blue  my  Minds  um  just  kind  of  something 
 that  we  have  over  in  that  area  so  again 
 it  all  ties  together  and  it's  really 
 just  as  simple  as  that  you  if  you  guys 
 have  um  a  similar  Builder  package  or  a 
 type  of  look  that  you  have  in  your  front 
 yard  and  you're  just  like  you  know  what 
 I'm  just  going  to  use  this  as  the  bones 
 I  think  that  makes  it  a  great  way  to 
 look  at  it  when  you  get  a  basic  package 
 is  the  they  give  you  a  tree  here  a  tree 
 here  a  tree  here  and  then  you  know  maybe 
 some  shrubs  now  it's  time  to  start 
 curving  those  beds  out  and  bringing  in 
 some  of  those  layers  and  and  jazzing 
 that  up  because  you  can  take  a 
 traditional  tree  here  tree  there  and 
 really  make  it  into  more  of  a  that 
 Serene  like  plantin  that  you  see  in  a 
 lot  of  my  designs  because  this  is  a 
 fairly  simple  design  to  replicate  and  it 
 did  if  you  noticed  it  didn't  take  a 
 whole  lot  of  plant  material  you  know 
 I've  got  four  here  and  four  there  and 
 four  there  and  you  know  three  here  and 
 that  is  the  way  I  like  to  design  I  like 
 to  really  just  kind  of  play  with  lights 
 and  darks  and  colors  and  and  make  sure 
 that  the  leaves  contrast  and  and  make 
 sure  that  you  have  enough  of  of  interest 
 that  way  without  having  to  have  tons  and 
 tons  of  material  that  all  collect 
 together  I  know  a  lot  of  people  like  The 
 Cottage  Garden  type  of  look  where  you 
 have  just  a  rows  and  rows  and  rows  of 
 material  that  kind  of  all  grows  together 
 and  not  that  I  don't  think  that  that's 
 beautiful  I  just  think  that  that's  such 
 a  high  maintenance  um  way  to  Garden  that 
 this  is  this  is  the  way  I  like  to  do  it 
 because  I  really  do  think  you  can  can 
 get  a  lot  of  variations  without  getting 
 um  without  getting  crazy  um  maintenance 
 um  where  you're  out  in  the  garden  every 
 single  weekend  so  so  I  hope  I  hope  that 
 this  is  um  I  hope  this  is  a  look  that 
 you  guys  like  I  hope  this  is  a  garden 
 that  you  can  kind  of  take  back  and  take 
 some  notes  on  and  be  like  you  know  what 
 I  could  probably  do  that  I  this  is  kind 
 of  a  look  that  I  could  kind  of  kind  of 
 work  with  because  that's  the  reason  why 
 I  want  to  share  it  with  you  guys  today 
 well  that  and  that  and  I  like  talking 
 with  you  and  Bryce  is  so  good  with  kind 
 of  coming  around  with  me  to  some  of  my 
 my  um  Landscapes  and  and  doing  these 
 tours  with  me  so  um  so  thank  you  Bryce 
 we're  going  to  walk  quickly  in  the 
 backyard  so  you  guys  get  to  see  what 
 that  looks  like  and  just  how  well  that 
 is  held  up  and  um  I  did  have  a  video  on 
 that  so  we'll  we'll  be  sure  to  link  that 
 in  the  description  or  maybe  up  above 
 however  Bryce  does  it  that  way  you  guys 
 can  see  it  so  you  guys  may  remember  this 
 video  from  a  couple  months  ago  we  first 
 put  it  in  um  it  is  now  starting  to  grow 
 starting  to  to  take  off  the  colors  are 
 starting  to  really  really  come  out  even 
 though  that  we're  in  in  mid  November  and 
 you  know  nothing  really  looks  great  this 
 time  of  the  year  but  I'm  really  really 
 pleased  with  just  how  beautiful  it's 
 coming  together  and  my  clients  are  too 
 so  I  thought  I  would  just  share  it  with 
 you  guys  just  kind  of  walk  through  it 
 and  let  you  see  as  it's  as  it's  starting 
 to  um  to  flush  out  maybe  we'll  come  back 
 in  six  to  eight  months  and  really  see  it 
 when  it's  connected  and  and  you  can  see 
 all  those  curves  actually  start  to 
 happen  um  but  this  is  after  two 
 significant  storms  and  um  a  whole  lot  of 
 wind  they  had  some  tornado  damage  in 
 this  neighborhood  and  it's  amazing  to  me 
 how  um  how  just  the  plants  have  just 
 rebounded  from  all  of  that  and 
 especially  the  tree  so  this  is  my  dream 
 pool  oh  my  goodness  um  I  tell  Laura 
 every  single  time  I  come  here  that  I 
 could  literally  spend  all  day  back  here 
 just  enjoying  this  beautiful  view  so 
 she's  got  two  Fireballs  here  she's  got 
 just  a  beautiful  beautiful  little  Beach 
 area  there  where  they  can  sit  and  relax 
 and  just  enjoy  this  back  space  and  it's 
 absolutely  absolutely  stunning  I  hate  it 
 that  we  don't  have  the  sun  here  for  you 
 guys  today  I  don't  know  what  happens 
 every  day  that  I  come  out  to  work  the 
 sun  is  blaring  on  me  but  when  we  come  to 
 do  the  video  it's  just  we  get  these 
 overcast  Hazy  Days  but  um  hopefully  you 
 guys  can  see  past  that  and  um  get  to 
 enjoy  just  the  beautiful  beautiful 
 plants  and  trees  that  are  here  and  in 
 the  garden  this  is  a  big  Half  Moon  Moon 
 bed  that's  just  on  the  outside  of  the 
 screen  room  so  this  is  their  Viewpoint 
 this  is  what  they  actually  really  get  to 
 see  when  they're  sitting  inside  that 
 beautiful  laai  looking  out  and  I  wanted 
 for  I  wanted  them  to  have  plenty  of 
 color  to  look  back  here  because  as  you 
 know  these  pool  screens  have  such  a 
 darkening  effect  and  it's  so  beautiful 
 and  light  and  bright  in  there  I  one  and 
 when  they  looked  back  here  that  they 
 really  felt  like  they  got  that  tropical 
 resort  kind  of  look  back  here  with  these 
 big  p  pal  trees  um  this  is  another  area 
 of  the  garden  where  we  reused  her 
 original  landscape  so  Laura  had  a  um 
 previous  landscaper  come  out  and  install 
 these  fox  tail  palms  you'll  see  that 
 from  the  previous  video  um  just  a  couple 
 months  before  I  met  her  she  found  us  on 
 YouTube  and  thought  that's  really  what  I 
 wanted  not  exactly  what  I  got  so  um  she 
 had  these  trees  put  in  I  took  them  all 
 out  she  had  like  three  individual  trees 
 on  each  side  we  put  them  into  one  bed 
 that  was  really  her  viewpoint  because 
 I'm  always  about  the  biggest  bang  for 
 the  buck  you  know  it  was  very  much  a  um 
 green  grass  type  effect  back  here  and 
 she  wanted  it  to  feel  tropical  when  she 
 sat  and  enjoyed  in  in  this  pool  area  so 
 um  so  she  had  the  trees  brought  in  and  a 
 few  other  things  and  she  just  ultimately 
 didn't  like  the  way  it  turned  out  then 
 she  stumbles  on  my  YouTube  channel  and 
 she's  like  that's  kind  of  the  look  that 
 I'm  going  for  I  kind  of  want  layers  I 
 want  lushness  I  want  tropical  I  want 
 this  is  the  feel  that  I'm  looking  for  to 
 kind  of  co  go  coincide  with  her  current 
 um  beautiful  back  space  and  so  she's 
 like  so  I  want  to  do  a  wraparound  just 
 like  just  like  your  your  house  I  want  to 
 do  a  garden  on  the  side  and  a  garden  on 
 this  side  and  and  so  on  and  I  do  think 
 that  that's  still  a  possibility  for  her 
 but  when  we  got  to  talking  we  realize 
 that  she  does  like  the  idea  of  the  open 
 grass  I  mean  she  has  this  big  beautiful 
 lot  get  plenty  of  room  for  games  for 
 entertaining  it's  just  it's  ideal  to 
 have  the  benefits  of  both  spaces  so 
 right  now  in  her  life  with  the  grandkids 
 we  decided  to  leave  the  sides  open  take 
 her  budget  focus  in  on  the  areas  that 
 really  were  going  to  just  really  going 
 to  capture  her  attention  that  were 
 really  really  going  to  give  her  the  most 
 impact  for  the  space  so  what  we  did  is 
 we  we  took  her  trees  from  each  side  and 
 B  put  them  all  into  one  bed  and  we  did 
 kind  of  a  nice  Halo  of  her  foxtail  Palms 
 to  this  back  I  think  they  look  so  great 
 together  back  here  I  brought  in  some 
 intermediate  trees  I  brought  in  the 
 bismar  and  the  two  young  triangle  palms 
 and  then  all  of  this  understory  planting 
 to  give  her  more  of  an  island  feel  back 
 here  now  this  goes  from  corner  of  her 
 screen  screen  room  to  corner  of  her 
 screen  room  so  that  way  this  is  almost 
 like  a  big  Half  Moon  back  here  looking 
 directly  into  her  pool  area  and 
 ultimately  her  house  because  she's  got 
 beautiful  doors  everything  looks  out  to 
 this  back  space  so  I  said  let's  focus  on 
 creating  enough  brightness  enough  impact 
 back  here  so  we  started  with  the  height 
 of  the  trees  did  a  second  second  layer 
 of  height  of  palm  trees  and  then  as  you 
 know  accents  and  then  lower  plantings 
 and  then  mix  the  colors  of  bright  and 
 darks  back  here  and  I  think  it  came  out 
 really  nice  you  guys  will  have  to  let  me 
 know  what  you  think  but  I  think  it  came 
 out  really  really  lovely  at  night  it's 
 beautiful  lit  up  back  here  it's  just 
 it's  just  it  you  know  I've  just  gotten 
 so  many  wonderful  compliments  from  her 
 and  her  husband  so  um  I  think  that  I 
 think  that  everything  held  up  great  we 
 couldn't  wait  to  walk  back  here  and  see 
 how  well  it  did  after  the  storm  I'm 
 super  super  pleased  that  it  has  done  so 
 well  so  again  do  not  be  afraid  to  PL 
 Even  in  our  hurricane  season  just  you 
 know  do  your  due  diligence  and 
 protecting  the  material  that  you  have  so 
 you  guys  that  does  it  for  today  thank 
 you  so  much  for  um  hanging  out  with  us 
 and  um  you  know  letting  me  share  my 
 Gardens  with  you  guys  it  has  been  my 
 absolute  pleasure  it  is  just  a  a  fun  pet 
 project  that  brightson  I  have  been  doing 
 over  this  last  year  and  I'm  so  so  glad 
 that  you  guys  are  are  gaining  some  um 
 from  info  from  it  and  you  know  you  have 
 such  great  questions  I  see  them  in  the 
 comments  and  they  always  make  me  smile 
 please  comment  true  Gardener  you  true 
 gardeners  out  there  and  tell  me  all  the 
 things  that  you're  doing  because  that  is 
 just  it's  just  the  best  part  of  this 
 whole  thing  so  um  speaking  of  true 
 gardeners  so  I  have  the  true  Gardener 
 T-shirts  they  are  out  um  I  will  be  sure 
 to  list  them  in  the  description  down 
 below  um  we  have  true  Gardener  t-shirts 
 we  have  true  gardener  hats  and  one  thing 
 I'm  probably  most  excited  about  is  the 
 true  true  Gardener  wine  glasses  so  those 
 um  I  have  that  one  on  order  so  I  haven't 
 actually  had  to  have  it  in  hand  yet  but 
 I  may  have  it  walking  around  with  me  as 
 we  do  our  next  Garden  Tour  because  I'm 
 very  very  excited  about  that  one  um  if 
 you  want  more  information  on  this 
 particular  Garden  that  we're  standing  in 
 um  I  did  do  a  a  garden  tour  on  it  just 
 after  we  finished  it  so  I'll  be  sure  to 
 place  the  link  right  here  you  guys  can 
 go  to  this  video  and  see  the  whole  tour 
 and  it's  and  its  very  new  glory  and  I 
 think  it  I  think  you'll  enjoy  it  so 
 thank  you  guys  so  much  see  you  in  the 
 very  next  video  take  care

---

 well  hello  gardeners  welcome  back  to  the 
 channel  today  Bryce  and  I  are  coming  to 
 you  from  Fort  Pierce  Florida  um  we  are 
 going  to  do  a  landscape  tour  of  this 
 awesome  backyard  space  I  am  I'm  just 
 like  Beyond  excited  about  it  um  I  will 
 start  with  saying  that  um  when  Kirby  and 
 Kathy  called  me  um  to  come  take  a  look 
 at  the  space  and  Rel  landscape  it  I  was 
 you  know  I  was  I  was  pretty  shocked 
 because  I  rarely  ever  get  to  see  a  space 
 that's  kind  of  almost  a  blank  slate  and 
 that's  exactly  what  this  area  was 
 overall  it  was  a  blank  slate  to  work 
 with  it  was  um  the  perfect  rectangular 
 backyard  of  grass  that  um  that  I've 
 gotten  in  a  long  long  time  so  I  was  um  I 
 was  pretty  excited  to  be  able  to 
 transform  it  into  something  that  I  think 
 that  was  going  to  be  really  really 
 doable  and  exciting  for  them  to  have  now 
 so  prior  to  um  to  me  meeting  them  they 
 um  they  enjoyed  this  space  pretty  much 
 as  um  a  great  place  to  to  play  football 
 with  the  boys  and  you  know  have  a  great 
 place  for  other  games  and  it  was  just 
 the  perfect  big  outdoor  backyard  which  I 
 know  not  all  of  us  have  so  it  was  kind 
 of  a  treat  to  be  able  to  work  in  however 
 now  kids  are  grown  they  put  on  a  outdoor 
 patio  in  their  backyard  um  but  it  pretty 
 much  just  looked  out  into  grass  and  it 
 wasn't  very  inspiring  for  them  so  they 
 called  me  and  they  said  look  we've  got  a 
 couple  staples  that  we  want  to  keep  in 
 our  garden  but  other  than  that  we  really 
 don't  have  much  to  work  with  could  you 
 just  make  it  I  don't  know  more 
 interactive  more  inviting  more  more  of  a 
 place  that  we  just  enjoy  looking  out  at 
 or  maybe  even  something  that's  going  to 
 bring  us  out  into  the  garden  so  I  um  so 
 so  so  I  got  carried  away  like  I  normally 
 you  and  um  I  was  like  absolutely  we 
 started  talking  this  is  what  I  do  with 
 my  clients  just  to  kind  of  give  you  guys 
 a  little  bit  of  background  I  sit  down 
 with  them  and  I  I  live  in  their  life 
 with  them  for  a  little  while  we  sit  and 
 we  talk  we  have  we  have  a  you  know  a  a  a 
 a  glass  of  water  together  and  we  really 
 just  kind  of  sit  and  and  figure  out  how 
 you're  going  to  use  a  space  What  You've 
 used  it  in  the  past  what  you  might  want 
 how  you  might  want  to  use  it  in  the 
 future  if  it's  going  to  be  some  place 
 you're  going  to  entertain  or  if  it's 
 going  to  be  more  of  a  private  area  that 
 you're  going  to  enjoy  and  they  wanted 
 more  of  a  space  that  was  going  to  be  an 
 unwind  end  of  the  day  kind  of  you  know 
 come  out  something  that's  going  to  bring 
 you  out  into  the  yard  using  every  bit  of 
 yard  that  they  have  instead  of  just 
 making  it  a  little  seating  section  by 
 the  house  and  then  going  inside  from 
 there  they  wanted  to  use  their  whole 
 backyard  space  which  as  you  guys  know  is 
 it's  kind  of  right  up  my  alley  so  I'm 
 like  okay  got  it  so  we  um  we  recreated 
 I'll  get  Bryce  to  slide  in  before 
 picture  for  you  but  we  recreated  their 
 current  pathway  they  had  a  um  concrete 
 path  that  kind  of  LED  from  the  front 
 gate  to  this  back  space  so  this  patio 
 area  and  then  they  had  trouble  with 
 maintenance  so  they  wanted  the  patio 
 kind  of  buffered  with  um  some  concrete 
 so  the  mowers  weren't  so  close  close  and 
 you  know  it  it  worked  it  just  wasn't 
 very  attractive  so  they  were  like  I  I'm 
 okay  we  tearing  that  up  if  that's  what 
 you  think  that  we  could  we  need  to  do 
 and  so  what  we  chose  to  do 
 was  remove  that  that  patio  space  or 
 excuse  me  remove  that  walkway  space  and 
 recreate  a  kind  of  a  bright  and  light  PA 
 area  that  goes  from  the  main  entrance 
 which  is  right  over  here  by  the  gate  C 
 curves  around  instead  of  being  really 
 really  squared  off  curves  around  this 
 corner  of  the  house  and  then  opens  up 
 here  and  then  opens  up  right  from  their 
 main  seating  section  now  this  is  where 
 they  would  go  spend  some  of  their  time 
 in  the  evening  and  then  they  would  go  in 
 from  here  but  having  a  pathway  that  goes 
 from  this  main  area  that  opens  up  here 
 to  kind  of  where  you  guys  are  right  now 
 and  then  coming  from  this  side  area 
 leading  to  this  area  did  two  things  it 
 allowed  a  reason  to  come  out  into  the 
 garden  and  kind  of  create  another  little 
 seating  set  SE  or  another  little 
 interesting  point  of  the  garden  but  it 
 also  um  it  also  broke  up  a  a  very 
 rectangular  area  so  those  of  you  guys 
 who  have  this  big  um  squared  off  or  um 
 very  harsh  rectangular  area  in  your 
 garden  or  your  backyard  and  you're  kind 
 of  like  it's  just  a  plot  of  grass  and  I 
 kind  of  don't  know  what  I  want  to  do 
 with  it  um  because  it's  so  vast  and  so 
 big  that's  kind  of  where  Kirby  and  Kathy 
 were  they're  like  it's  just  it's  it's 
 just  a  lot  of  grass  and  we  don't  kind  of 
 know  what  direction  to  go  in  so  I  hope 
 that  this  video  helps  because  sometimes 
 bringing  something  right  in  the  middle 
 of  that  and  breaking  that  area  up  into 
 two  spaces  is  just  super  super  ideal  and 
 and  you  guys  you  can  take  it  from  that 
 point  on  too  if  you  want  to  we  kept  it 
 really  clean  here  but  I  have  another 
 video  and  I'll  post  it  I'll  get  rice  to 
 post  it  somewhere  up  here  where  you  guys 
 can  see  what  um  what  it  looks  like  when 
 you  can  take  a  long  squared  backyard 
 that  you  have  to  work  with  and  create 
 pathways  through  that  and  create  little 
 kind  of  Vistas  along  those  Pathways 
 areas  that  you  don't  see  from  your  back 
 space  that  are  kind  of  nice  and  covered 
 and  then  once  you  get  in  there  it  opens 
 up  to  maybe  a  little  babbling  brook  or 
 maybe  just  another  little  Garden  area 
 that's  in  the  shade  or  what  whatever  the 
 whatever  it  could  be  you  know  you  can 
 really  take  a  typical  backyard  and 
 create  that  perfect  garden  or  that 
 perfect  Botanical  Garden  that  you  want 
 um  by  just  by  just  sometimes  creating  a 
 pathway  creating  a  little  bit  of 
 division  between  here  and  there  or 
 bringing  something  further  out  into  the 
 yard  and  that's  what  we  did  here  we  took 
 their  main  access  points  and  we  drew 
 them  all  the  way  out  into  this  space 
 which  gave  us  two  things  it  gave  us  a 
 area  to  be  this  is  in  the  very  near 
 future  going  to  have  a  beautiful  wood 
 pergula  over  top  with  a  fire  pit  in  the 
 center  facing  the  water  feature  which 
 gives  you  a  fantastic  Viewpoint  to  just 
 kind  of  come  out  into  the  garden  and  be 
 amongst  the  Garden  area 
 and  there's  something  about  that 
 something  about  just  from  sitting  inside 
 looking  out  versus  from  coming  out  and 
 sitting  within  the  garden  it  let  us 
 landscape  all  the  way  around  the 
 perimeter  of  this  space  which  I  I  just 
 think  that  you  know  I  just  think  that's 
 the  perfect  thing  to  do  to  sit  and  have 
 a  glass  of  wine  amongst  the  plants  and 
 the  trees  sit  under  the  canopies  of  of 
 what  you  planted  those  are  just  those 
 are  just  great  spaces  to  enjoy  and  I 
 think  that  Kathy  and  Kirby  are  really 
 really  loving  that  in  their  garden  and 
 that's  something  that  they  um  they  were 
 struggling  with  trying  to  figure  out  so 
 I  hope  that  when  you  look  at  this  you 
 think  this  could  be  this  could  be  an 
 option  for  you  so  I  will  tell  you  just 
 like  I  normally  do  in  every  single  um 
 video  is  I'm  going  to  share  with  you  the 
 plant  the  tree  names  um  a  little  bit 
 about  each  and  every  one  of  them  in  case 
 this  is  something  that  you're  going  to 
 kind  of  you  know  pull  from  as  a  shopping 
 list  and  and  add  to  your  garden  so  we'll 
 start  right  over  here  at  the  front  of 
 the  garden  so  this  is  the  front  of  the 
 walkway  this  is  their  seating  section 
 where  I  will  say  we  have  enjoyed  sitting 
 and  talking  this  has  been  a  great  spot 
 to  do  and  we've  really  really  gathered  a 
 lot  of  information  as  we  sat  there 
 looking  out  and  dreaming  into  this  space 
 and  it  was  it  was  just  fantastic  this 
 Garden  is  about  3  months  old  so  it's 
 growing  in  a  little  bit  but  this  is  in 
 Fort  Pierce  Florida  you  guys  and  um  I'm 
 telling  you  Fort  Pierce  we  had  a  pretty 
 good  hit  of  those  tornadoes  and  those 
 storms  so  this  Garden  is  just  bouncing 
 back  from  that  so  um  so  be  kind  you  know 
 there's  some  there's  some  you  know  some 
 damage  to  some  things  but  overall  just 
 like  Florida  Tropicals  they  bounce  right 
 back  and  these  are  doing  just  that  so  so 
 starting  from  this  entrance  way  so  this 
 is  now  we  we  took  this  paper  pad  and  we 
 walked  it  we  started  it  right  off  from 
 this  main  point  giving  us  a  cool  King 
 SEO  you  guys  I  love  these  King  seos  you 
 can  put  them  look  how  close  this  guy  is 
 to  the  walkway  that's  what  I  love  about 
 them  they  grow  so  darn  slow  that  you  can 
 put  them  in  really  really  tight  Corners 
 Courtyards  entranceways  walkways  right 
 off  patios  they're  super  super  cool  the 
 negative  to  King  sayos  is  that  yes  they 
 can  get  that  scale  so  you  do  need  to  put 
 Dominion  or  a  pest  control  treatment  to 
 control  the  scale  a  couple  times  a  year 
 but  it's  well  worth  it  because  of  their 
 lack  of  Maintenance  I  think  mixing  up  a 
 solution  pouring  it  over  top  a  couple 
 times  a  year  to  me  is  worth  the  trouble 
 but  you  know  to  each  his  own  so  this  is 
 King  SEO  right  here  by  the  front 
 entrance  and  one  more  thing  King  seos 
 are  toxic  to  dogs  so  if  you  do  have 
 puppies  or  dogs  that  do  chew  on  plants 
 and  trees  you  you  don't  want  them  right 
 near  a  um  a  relaxing  area  that  you're 
 going  to  have  your  dogs  so  they  do  not 
 have  one  of  those  so  we  did  I  said  one 
 of  those  they  do  not  have  any  babies  or 
 puppies  so  they  don't  have  anything 
 that's  going  to  be  chewing  or  munching 
 on  this  so  we  did  keep  um  so  we  did 
 allow  for  this  guy  to  be  right  here  and 
 I  do  think  that  he  adds  a  punch  right  at 
 the  front  entrance  of  a  walkway  so  I 
 love  it  surrounded  him  with  some  um  gold 
 mounds  and  they  are  doing  so  well  as  a 
 nice  bright  spot  to  that  dark  green 
 foliage  I  just  love  the  way  those  two 
 look  together  and  then  you  see  how  we 
 curved  we  did  a  real  sharp  nice  cool 
 curve  that  comes  out  this  way  and  angles 
 right  into  the  new  patio  seating  section 
 now  I  think  I  mentioned  this  earlier  as 
 I  dream  with  my  clients  I  we  talk  about 
 wants  you  know  what  our  hopes  are  for  a 
 space  and  if  you  guys  were  big 
 entertainers  and  you  know  you  knew  that 
 you're  going  to  have  the  whole 
 neighborhood  over  and  you're  thinking 
 about  doing  a  bar  and  you're  thinking 
 about  doing  you  know  much  much  bigger 
 spaces  this  space  would  look  different  I 
 would  have  taken  the  space  and  gone  this 
 way  with  it  maybe  even  done  kind  of  like 
 a  half  moon  circle  with  it  leaving  us 
 enough  room  for  one  section  at  a  bar  one 
 section  for  dining  and  entertaining  and 
 then  a  big  walkway  that  leads  to  this 
 area  but  kir  and  Kathy  knew  themselves 
 they  knew  what  they  were  looking  for  and 
 they  kind  of  wanted  they  kind  of  wanted 
 just  an  area  to  unwind  an  area  to  come 
 out  here  in  some  really  comfy  chairs 
 under  a  really  cool  handmade  pergola 
 around  their  fire  pit  and  just  enjoying 
 a  reason  to  that's  what  Bryce  says  a 
 reason  to  come  outside  something  that 
 Drew  them  out  from  inside  the  house  to 
 here  now  you  can't  see  it  because 
 everything's  boarded  up  cuz  they're  gone 
 for  the  weekend  but  this  whole  back 
 space  here  the  viewpoint  point  is  out 
 here  and  they've  told  me  over  the  last 
 couple  months  how  much  they  enjoy  seeing 
 this  right  outside  the  house  and  I  know 
 from  example  that  having  viewpoints 
 right  outside  your  window  I  don't  know 
 if  there's  anything  else  that  calls  you 
 out  just  like  that  you  see  the  birds  you 
 see  the  movement  of  the  fronds  you  see 
 just  all  that  magic  in  the  garden  and 
 it's  just  so  much  bigger  and  brighter 
 than  it  is  inside  there  you  grab  that 
 cup  of  coffee  and  you  just  walk  outside 
 while  you're  on  the  phone  and  you  just 
 walk  through  the  garden  and  it  just  does 
 something  to  ground  us  I  think  and  I 
 think  that's  what  makes  it  so  I  think 
 what  what  makes  it  so  magical  anyway  it 
 does  it  for  me  but  I'm  getting  I'm  just 
 wobbling  on  let  me  um  let  me  go  to  the 
 next  part  of  the  tour  so  these  right 
 here  are  foxtail  ferns  right  by  the 
 entrance  way  and  you  guys  know  I  use 
 foxtail  ferns  because  their  durability 
 this  heat  right  off  the  full  sun  area 
 right  here  really  does  bounce  off  pretty 
 heavy  so  foxtail  ferns  can  handle  that 
 heat  and  so  can  this  big  false  aave 
 that's  here  this  guy  you  can  see  the 
 tattered  edges  right  there  that  is  from 
 the  storm  um  there  it's  it's  coming  back 
 but  it's  doing  really  really  well  in  the 
 center  and  it's  doing  it's  going  to  be  a 
 fantastic  5  foot  focal  point  right  here 
 into  this  garden  and  just  be  a  stunning 
 structure  in  the  yard  and  it's  not  going 
 to  compete  with  the  King  SEO  so  you'll 
 see  from  the  seating  section  the  king 
 Sego  and  then  it  drops  up  to  the  fals 
 Agave  the  fals  Agave  the  fals  agave  and 
 then  this  tree  will  reach  its  16t  beauty 
 up  the  top  and  be  the  centerpiece  to 
 this  area  so  this  will  be  a  fantastic 
 feature  as  the  pergula  gets  in  so  that 
 way  we  have  multiple  roof  lines  as  we 
 work  in  this  space  not  just  the  pergula 
 structure  but  um  so  right  now  we  have 
 the  trio  of  fals  aavees  I  love  to  do 
 that  in  a  curved  fashion  I  really  do 
 think  that  that  really  adds  some  ump  to 
 the  Garden  it  gives  kind  of  some  like  I 
 said  some  upright  structure  to  it  and 
 then  this  final  of  this  Christmas  home 
 will  do  a  nice  job  of  being  a  16t  triple 
 above  the  pergola  feature  we've  got  some 
 brightening  colors  of  the  mamy  croin 
 just  down  below  and  you  see  kind  of  have 
 them  just  along  the  edge  here  and  I 
 think  they're 
 gorgeous  I'm  going  to  do  super  super 
 well  um  I  don't  mean  to  Bebop  around  on 
 you  guys  but  I  really  want  you  to  get 
 the  whole  picture  of  this  backyard  space 
 and  I  wanted  no  square  corners  from  the 
 patio  the  walkways  to  the  beds 
 themselves  so  when  you're  sitting  um  at 
 the  the  main  seating  section  by  the 
 house  you'll  see  that  these  beds  all 
 Loop  into  one  another  I  love  how  this 
 bed  which  is  existing  it  had  a  CRP 
 Myrtle  here  in  this  hedge  here  we  just 
 added  to  it  but  you'll  see  how  this  bed 
 now  pulls  out  it  loops  around  angles 
 into  that  patio  section  and  then  it's 
 almost  like  the 
 patio  isn't  even  there  with  as  far  as 
 the  bed  goes  because  the  bed  continues 
 where  it  left  off  now  it  Loops  back  into 
 this  part  of  the 
 yard  and  then  now  curves  again  and 
 angles  into  that  space  and  the  whole 
 goal  of  these  curves  I  didn't  want  this 
 side  and  this  side  to  match  I  wanted  the 
 sides  to  almost  just  flow  and  sweet 
 because  if  you've  got  a  square  area  or  a 
 rectangular  area  in  your  backyard  you 
 know  like  a  lot  of  homes  do  whether  it's 
 big  or  small  um  this  area  it  was  so 
 aggressively 
 green  that  it  looked  like  you  know  just 
 it  like  it  just  like  the  green  went  went 
 on  in  a  very  harsh  fashion  just  very 
 very  rectangular  and  so  what  I  wanted 
 them  to  be  left  with  was  a  a  one  curve 
 that  led  into  another  curve  that  led 
 into  another  curve  because  what  I  didn't 
 want  to  do  is  take  away  the  space  from 
 them  when  you  have  a  a  yard  that's  been 
 big  for  so  long  and  then  you  um  then  you 
 chop  it  up  with  a  bunch  of  little  beds  I 
 didn't  want  them  to  feel  like  gosh  a 
 lost  space  what  I  wanted  to  was  to  blur 
 the  lines  and  so  I  blurred  one  bed  into 
 the  next  bed  into  the  next  bed  and  then 
 changed  it  with  some  layers  to  still 
 give  them  a  perspective  of  maybe  they 
 didn't  go  back  as  far  the  grass  didn't 
 but  the  layers  of  the  plants  and  the 
 trees  did  and  that  gave  them  a  view  of  a 
 bigger  space  rather  than  a  smaller  space 
 I  hope  that  makes  sense  but  that's  what 
 I  was  intending  to  do  and  um  my  clients 
 seem  to  feel  that  way  because  they're  so 
 complimentary  they're  so  fantastic  they' 
 really  really  enjoyed  this  area  and  see 
 it  kind  of  blossom  into  what  it's 
 blossoming  into  and  maybe  they'll  invite 
 us  back  in  about  seven  or  eight  months 
 for  us  to  see  that  really  really  come 
 together  as  it  um  blossoms  and  blooms 
 and  all  the  curves  come  together  with 
 all  the  blooming  plants  so  but  let's  get 
 back  to  the  back  to  the  tour  so  as  we 
 walk  over  here  you  guys  if  Ry  if  you'll 
 just  kind  of  pan  over  here  from  this 
 point  and  see  the  house  that's  directly 
 behind  us  now  my  neighbors  or  my 
 neighbors 
 now  my  clients  they  are  the  sweetest 
 people  and  they  have  sweet  neighbors  and 
 they've  been  in  this  home  a  very  long 
 time  so  um  they  it's  not  that  they  want 
 to  dismiss  their  neighbors  like  many  of 
 us  but  having  a  little  bit  of  softness  a 
 little  bit  of  coverage  I  think  was 
 really  really  important  for  them  so  we 
 put  in  the  Christmas  Palm  here  and  those 
 Pym  date  palms  you  you  guys  all  know  how 
 I  feel  about  Pym  datee  palms  and  what 
 they  do  for  us  um  so  I  have  got  one  two 
 three  four  five  pyate  Palms  in  this  one 
 grouping  right  here  and  I  can  I  I'm  sure 
 you  could  imagine  after  seeing  so  many 
 of  my  videos  what  that's  going  to  do  to 
 that  house  behind  us  they're  going  to 
 hit  their  12T  height  by  8  to  10t  wide 
 cuz  they  you  know  really  Branch  out  and 
 then  um  they're  going  to  create  a 
 beautiful  wall  of  frond  back  there  and 
 just  really  do  a  nice  job  of  really 
 concealing  pretty  much  everything  above 
 that  wall  line  there  so  I  love  that 
 they're  going  to  do  that  and  they're 
 going  to  make  all  the  rest  of  that  color 
 and  more  polished  part  of  the 
 Landscaping  really  really  pop  so  um  I 
 think  that  that's  going  to  um  ultimately 
 that  was  our  kind  of  our  our  big  goal 
 and  you  can  see  that  I  put  all  of  the 
 green  to  the  back  and  all  of  the  color 
 to  the  front  so  once  that  green  really 
 takes  off  and  becomes  the  green  screen 
 of  the  back  of  the  garden  then  now  the 
 layers  pop  in  the  yellows  the  greens  the 
 Reds  all  of  that  just  impact  really 
 really  comes  in  so  that  is  kind  of  the 
 goal  for  what  you  guys  are  looking  at 
 now  from  the  main  seating  section  that 
 was  the  big  you  know  the  big  um  the  big 
 reveal  so  I'm  hoping  in  a  year  or  so 
 we'll  really  get  to  see  that  really  come 
 into  fruition  so  but  let's  walk  over 
 here  so  as  you  guys  are  following  me 
 over  here  we  are  um  looking  at  an 
 existing  CRP  Myrtle  that  was  here  they 
 love  their  CRP  myrtles  this  tree  during 
 the  summer  months  is  beautiful  we  are  in 
 mid  November  right  now  so  it  is  looking 
 bid  november-ish  you  know  this  is  what 
 they  do  but  um  during  the  summer  and 
 most  of  the  year  for  um  because  Summer 
 is  most  of  the  year  in  Florida  it  is  a 
 happy  happy  tree  so  I'm  glad  we  kept  it 
 and  I  know  they'll  get  to  enjoy  it 
 however  during  the  winter  months  during 
 the  fall  months  and  early  summer  these 
 um  pagodas  will  do  a  fantastic  job  of 
 giving  us  real  real  bright  color  this 
 orange  this  flame  Vine  type  of  look  now 
 I'm  going  to  let  these  guys  and  I've 
 told  my  clients  just  let  them  go  to  town 
 let  them  be  8  to  10  foot  tall  really 
 flush  out  really  become  gorgeous 
 backdrops  to  this  um  this  CRP  Myrtle  and 
 I  think  they're  going  to  do  a  great  job 
 of  that  oh  my  goodness  you  know 
 I  I  love  pagodas  I  know  I  know  they 
 travel  I  know  that  if  you  love  one  you 
 better  love  10  because  you'll  get  that 
 in  the  garden  and  I  thought  in  this 
 environment  let  them  reproduce  let  them 
 kind  of  fill  in  all  underneath  this  CRP 
 Myrtle  let  them  if  you  got  a  plant 
 that's  going  to  do  that  let  it  do  its 
 job  um  just  don't  plan  on  putting  it  in 
 a  spot  where  gosh  you  you  need  to  keep 
 it  way  separated  from  all  the  other 
 plants  or  it's  not  going  to  it's  it's 
 not  going  to  um  be  in  line  with  the 
 perfect  design  by  putting  it  here  am 
 amongst  a  bunch  of  other  kind  of  lush 
 and  tropical  plants  this  is  a  great 
 environment  I  hope  they  fill  in  and 
 really  really  take  take  off  in  this 
 particular  space  and  really  kind  of  go 
 crazy  now  will  they  come  over  here  in 
 this  open  spot  absolutely  very  very  easy 
 to  get  rid  of  them  in  this  spot  so  this 
 is  an  area  that  they're  going  to  want  to 
 keep  clean  and  keep  them  kind  of 
 isolated  into  this  area  so  um  that's 
 what  they're  going  to  do  they're  going 
 to  be  gorgeous  pop  of  orange  and  kind  of 
 give  them  a  little  bit  of  softness  from 
 their  neighbor's  yard  so  I  love  it  and 
 then  of  course  variegated 
 arbola  I  feel  I  love  variegated  arbola  I 
 know  they  get  a  tough  wrap  because 
 they're  used  so  often  but  they're  used 
 so  often  because  they're  such  a 
 low-maintenance  plant  if  they're  just 
 touched  a  little  bit  with  some  trimmers 
 and  kind  of  kept  clean  and  fertilized 
 their  shiny  glossy  leaf  looks  great  they 
 do  need  a  little  they  do  need  your 
 normal  amount  of  care  I  think  that  um 
 people  think  that  they're  so  low 
 maintenance  that  that  you  just  there 
 forget  me  plant  and  they're  not  they 
 will  look  harsh  and  a  little  bit  dried 
 out  and  not  not  so  nice  in  shape  if  you 
 do  forget  about  them  but  some  light 
 trimming  a  couple  times  a  year  and  some 
 fertilizing  and  they're  a  beautifully 
 happy  plant  so  they  were  here  we  kept 
 them  I  think  they're  going  to  make  a 
 nice  backdrop  to  the  green  and  orange  in 
 the  back  so  and  then  we  had  to  bring  it 
 down  here  so  I  wanted  some  foxtail  ferns 
 to  kind  of  start  this  groove  this  was 
 originally  all  grass  back  here  but  I 
 think  that  did  a  nice  job  of  kind  of 
 giving  us  a  clustering  of  some  greens 
 here  because  the  pigate  Palm  is  not 
 going  to  get  big  fast  they  grow  slow  so 
 I  needed  something  that  wasn't  going  to 
 be  like  the  blaze  cop  relief  that  we're 
 going  to  take  over  and  be  well  above  the 
 pyate  pumps  so  our  layers  are  always 
 going  to  remain  without  my  clients 
 having  to  do  so  much  work  so  um  nice  and 
 small  foxtail  ferns  near  the 
 py8  now  as  you  can 
 see  back  here  I  know  that  we're  not 
 we're  not  too  close  to  this  pigment  8 
 palm  and  these  beautiful  Java  white 
 copper  leaves  are  going  to  do  what 
 they're  going  to  do  which  is  get  Big  And 
 Chunky  and  fluffy  and  they're  gorgeous 
 for  really  becoming  a  bright  spot  in  a 
 garden  so  they're  absolutely  going  to  do 
 just  that  I  mean  look  at  the  size  of 
 this  Leaf  it's  just  beautiful  size 
 bright  color  absolutely  stunning  this  is 
 a  good  Sun  environment  and  it's  going  to 
 do  fantastic  now  this  was  a  bit  of  a 
 tricky  spot  for  me  because  this  tree 
 above  us  has  some  damage  during  the 
 hurricane  um  so  it's  very  very  thin 
 right  now  however  it  is  a  Royal 
 Poinciana  and  those  of  you  guys  who  are 
 familiar  with  royal  poincianas  know  that 
 they  do  get  really  dense  really  thick 
 and  um  really  have  a  lot  of  leaf  canopy 
 coverage  and  some  droppage  so  I  wanted 
 to  make  sure  that  um  what  I  put  in  this 
 area  could  handle  full  sun  for  when  it's 
 thin  like  this  and  they  keep  it  trimmed 
 back  and  then  in  the  summertime  and  the 
 rest  of  the  time  of  year  where  it's 
 thick  and  it's  dense  and  it's  dropping 
 foliage  I  mean  this  is  this  plant  can 
 handle  both  environments  it  can  handle 
 filtered  light  it  can  handle  full  sun  it 
 can  handle  dappled  sunlight  through  I 
 mean  it's  just  going  to  be  a  great 
 backdrop  in  this  space  and  with  this 
 orange  and  dark  green  it's  going  to 
 offer  that  bright  almost  like  a 
 highlighter  color  amongst  deep  colors  so 
 I  think  it's  going  to  be  so  so  stunning 
 so  and  then  to  the  front  we  have  the 
 blaze  copper  leaf  that  you  guys  know  I 
 love  I  adore  this  plant  during  the 
 season  it  changes  colors  it  has  vibran 
 of  Pinks  on  the  edges  um  some  um  paler 
 pinks  on  the  ends  and  then  some  dark 
 Greens  in  the  middle  and  I  just  I  don't 
 know  it's  just  such  a  fun  fun  plant  to 
 work  with  and  you  can  handle  it  it  can 
 handle  filtered  light  it  can  handle  full 
 sun  to  me  um  in  most  cases  it  does  the 
 very  best  or  I  love  the  look  of  it  the 
 most  in  full  sun  environment  because  the 
 the  pink  is  more  and  more  vibrant  but  as 
 it  gets  into  filtered  light  the  less 
 light  it  gets  the  less  pink  it  gets  and 
 the  and  the  more  of  this  pronounced 
 green  um  takes  over  so  you'll  just  get 
 it  on  the  tips  like  you  can  see  it  back 
 here  so  overall  I  think  it's  a  go-to 
 plan  and  i'  I've  used  it  in  both 
 scenario  so  I  love  it  to  the  back  so  way 
 back  here  and  you  guys  I  almost  hate  to 
 show  it  to  you  cuz  it's  not  the  best 
 representation  you  know  how  I  feel  about 
 Brazilian  Red  cloaks  I  love  Brazilian 
 Red  cloaks  because  of  what  they  offer 
 now  do  they  take  some  time  to  get 
 established  in  the  garden  3  months  is 
 not  enough  if  you've  been  through  two 
 hurricanes  so  anything  with  big  tropical 
 leaves  is  going  to  be  hit  the  hardest 
 with  hurricane  weather  or  high  winds  or 
 tornadoes  or  anything  like  that  and 
 these  are  no  exception  these  have 
 definitely  gotten  gotten  some  damage  to 
 them  but  overall  these  Brazilian  Red 
 cloaks  as  the  final  rear  drop  as  the 
 area  that's  most  exposed  to  the  sun  back 
 here  is  going  to  do  a  fantabulous  job  of 
 being  that  bright  pink  bright  red  kind 
 of  cherry  on  top  of  my  my  ice  cream 
 Sunday  I'm  sorry  I'm  hungry  um  my  ice 
 cream  sunday  um  of  of  the  Garden  it  is 
 going  to  be  the  backdrop  that  just  as  as 
 the  best  of  all  backdrops  so  oh  yes  and 
 Bryce  is  right  we  have  a  video  on  the 
 Brazilian  Red  cloaks  I'll  I'll  link  it 
 somewhere  around  here  of  the  how  to  care 
 for  them  what  to  expect  from  them  kind 
 of  how  to  make  them  their  their  ultimate 
 Beauty  and  it  is  so  so  worth  it  if  you 
 can  find  a  Brazilian  Red  Cloak 
 clustering  of  plants  get  them  find  a 
 perfect  corner  spot  in  your  garden 
 because  they're  such  stunners  I  have 
 them  in  two  places  in  my  garden  and  if  I 
 had  a  bigger  Garden  I  would  have  them  in 
 many  many  more  places  but  but  right  now 
 these  guys  are  starting  to  tip  out 
 starting  to  get  some  coverage  but  they 
 are  going  to  be  about  I  think  my  clients 
 are  going  to  let  them  get  8  n  foot  tall 
 and  completely  consume  this  whole  corner 
 so  just  imagine  this  as  this  tree 
 bounces  back  those  of  you  guys  who  know 
 what  royal  poana  is  do  know  that  we're 
 going  to  have  bright  orangish  reddish 
 flowers  and  beautiful  Fern  like  leaves 
 from  the  Poinciana  it's  going  to  Cascade 
 at  all  Corners  as  the  final  kind  of 
 Anchor  Point  to  this  rear  corner  of  the 
 garden  and  then  we've  got  the  blaze 
 copper  leaf  that  offer  that  fire  touched 
 kind  of  Blaze  coloring  to  the  front  we 
 then  which  is  dark  then  we  bring  a  big 
 SWAT  of  brightness  of  all  of  this  great 
 bright  Java  white  coloring  which  I  love 
 so  these  are  nice  thick  cluster  grouping 
 of  those  as  a  backdrop  only  to  finish 
 off  with  green  dark  green  with  bright 
 reddish  ore  well  they're  more  bright 
 reddish  pinkish  kind  of  colorations  In 
 Color  through  here  that  are  6  to  8  to  9 
 foot  tall  as  a  nice  backdrop  so  you're 
 going  to  get  a  lot  of  brights  and  darks 
 in  this  one  area  and  so  all  I  try  to  do 
 was  through  the  rest  of  the  garden  to 
 bring  that  same  color  palette  in  and  if 
 you  can  just  kind  of  do  that  in  in  your 
 garden  if  you  have  one  area  that's  got 
 one  specific  look  to  it 
 just  carry  it  through  the  rest  of  your 
 garden  does  not  have  to  be  the  same 
 plant  grouping  but  the  same  colors  kind 
 of  give  you  a  very  very  welcoming  feel 
 and  that's  kind  of  where  where  we  ended 
 up  um  with  the  rest  of  the  garden  so 
 we'll  kind  of  kind  of  walk  that  way  now 
 so  here  we  chose  the  pigate  Palms  to  get 
 their  glorious  size  of  around  12T  and 
 become  that  wall  now  when  they  do  that 
 as  you  guys  know  we're  going  to  have  a 
 you  know  4  foot  trunk  at  the  bottom 
 which  is  you  know  not  too  appealing  so 
 that's  kind  of  what  all  this  this 
 planting  to  the  front  is  it's  to  really 
 kind  of  do  a  good  job  of  giving  us  a 
 skirt  planting  be  careful  right  behind 
 you  Bryce  is  the  fal  sagave  um  so  that 
 way  that  way  we  have  a  Forefront  bit  of 
 color  that  leads  right  into  these 
 beautiful  fronds  that  turn  into  the 
 future  wall  of  this  back  Garden  so 
 Goldust  croin  dwarf  exora 
 false  agave  now  if  you  guys  have  been 
 watching  my  my  garden  tours  for  a  while 
 you  know  that  when  it  comes  to  false 
 agave  I  love  them  for  what  they  offer 
 but  because  I  use  them  so  much  in  the 
 garden  I  do  also  have  to  pair  them  with 
 material  that  is  really  paired  back 
 really  compact  really  um  maybe  not  too 
 too  much  of  a  showstopper  but  something 
 that's  definitely  definitely 
 controllable  so  that  way  we  don't  have  a 
 false  agave  completely  consumed  by  a 
 sloppy  painter  croin  or  a  pagot  plant  or 
 a  Brazilian  red  clo  because  those  those 
 would  not  match  well  together  they  get 
 lost  so  every  time  you  see  a  fals  agave 
 in  my  plant  grouping  it's  paired  with 
 things  like  um  mamy 
 croin  blue  my 
 Minds  Taiwanese 
 exor  now  these  blw  my  minds  are  not  they 
 it's  it's  um  4:30  in  the  afternoon  we're 
 here  late  cuz  we're  all  working  and 
 Bryce  is  so  so  kind  to  be  videoing  for 
 me  and  it's  you  know  I  hope  you  guys  are 
 getting  the  best  of  this  tour  but  as  you 
 guys  know  oh  that's  right  yes  so  Bryce 
 is  testing  out  his  brand  new  camera  I 
 hope  you  guys  I  hope  the  lightness  is 
 coming  through  I  hope  it's  a  little 
 better  quality  so  he's  really  enjoying 
 playing  with  that  but  um  so  we're  we're 
 here  kind  of  later  than  we  would  like  to 
 in  the  day  but  you  know  life  is  life  and 
 I  wanted  to  share  this  video  with  you 
 while  we  could  but  the  blue  my  minds  are 
 asleep  so  they  have  closed  up  their 
 flowers  They're  not  that  gorgeous 
 vibrant  blue  as  they've  opened  up 
 they're  ready  right  now  they're  kind  of 
 tucked  into  bed  and  we're  going  to  be 
 quiet  and  we're  going  to  move  on  to  the 
 rest  of  the  garden  and  let  them  do  their 
 thing  so  as  we  get  to  the  other 
 side  now  I  I  have  been  asked  this 
 question  not  just  in  the  comments 
 believe  it  or  not  but  in  in  um  when  I'm 
 designing  um  Gardens  where  a  lot  of 
 folks  will  say  you  know  don't  you  want 
 to  do  the  same  thing  at  an  entry  point 
 on  the  other  side  and  I  say  usually  not 
 so  um  if  when  we  saw  it  earlier  we  saw 
 the  false  or  the  king  SEO  right  at  the 
 front  of  the  entrance  space  that  gave  us 
 a  purpose  that  gave  us  like  an  like  an 
 anchor  Point  showing  us  this  is  the 
 entrance  to  the  new  walkway  that  leads 
 out  to  the  seating  section  right  well 
 normally  I  would  do  that  on  the  exact 
 opposite  side  and  you  know  kind  of 
 create  a  similar  look  but  in  this 
 particular  situation  I  really  wanted  to 
 draw  your  eye  out  I  wanted  to  flank  this 
 area  with  the  water  feature  a  little  bit 
 more  so  I  love  the  idea  of  coming 
 further  up  the  walkway  as  we  come  into 
 this  curve  and  do  the  same  thing  as  we 
 have  here  here  so  your  eye  is  ultimately 
 drawn  out  into  the  seating 
 section  where  this  balt  column  is  I  love 
 fountains  in  the  garden  I  mean  I  think 
 that  I  think  it's  been  obvious  I  love 
 fountains  in  the  garden  I  would  put  one 
 everywhere  I  particular  I  have  this 
 particular  fountain  in  my  own  walkway 
 space  because  I  love  the  soft  subtle 
 sound  it  gives  and  I  know  I've  walked 
 through  my  sidey  yard  many  many  times 
 but  there  is  something  about  walking  to 
 the  front  of  my  house  and  hearing  sound 
 on  the  side  walking  along  the  backside 
 of  my  house  and  hearing  this  sound  of 
 this  Basalt  column  feature  in  my  own 
 yard  that  makes  me  walk  out  and  just 
 check  on  things  if  you  want  to 
 add  you  know  Birds  coming  out  into  your 
 garden  if  you  want  to  add  kind  of  just  a 
 little  bit  more  life  out  a  little  bit 
 more  sustainability  out  into  your  garden 
 bring  out  a  water  feature  it  does  not 
 have  to  be  anything  huge  or  a  full 
 waterfall  feature  it's  just  a  little  bit 
 of  sound  of  water  it  just  does  something 
 to  the  senses  and  um  you  know  I  feel 
 like  I'm  a  proclaimer  for  water  all  the 
 time  because  I  do  know  what  that  does 
 having  water  and  plants  and  color  and 
 texture  and  and  just  all  these  ERS  it 
 does  something  to  bring  you  from  one 
 space  into  the  other  and  I  think 
 ultimately  that's  what  that's  what  we're 
 all  looking  for  So  speaking  of  different 
 things  out  in  the  garden  I  did  polish  a 
 few  of  these  Boulders  into  the 
 landscape  I'll  have  to  get  with  Kirby 
 cuz  I  see  some  of  mine  are  covered  but 
 um  we'll  work  on  that  with  maintenance 
 this  is  Ruby  Red  and  you  guys  know  how 
 much  I  love  these  Ruby  Reds  they're  a 
 beautiful  color  and  they  do  right  now 
 have  a  pretty  little  white  flower  now 
 the  flower  is  nothing  that  shows  off  the 
 plant  to  me  the  Leaf  color  of  the  plant 
 is  what  makes  it  gorgeous  but  right  now 
 this  time  of  the  year  in  November  the 
 Leaf  color  is  more  purple  and  the  rest 
 of  the  time  of  the  year  it  has  more  of  a 
 burgundy  deep  deep  deep  red  tone  to  it 
 which  is  my  favorite  so  um  they  really 
 become  showstoppers  and  then  pair  that 
 with  yellow  I  mean  I  pair  these  guys 
 with  gold  Mound  I  pair  them  with  sloppy 
 painter  Gold  Dust  croin  even  variegated 
 arbac  colas  oh  my  gosh  they're 
 absolutely  beautiful  so  they  do  love 
 full  sun  um  which  is  perfect  right  now 
 we  are  in  a  full  sun  I  know  you  wouldn't 
 know  it  because  it's  late  in  the  evening 
 but  we  are  in  a  full  sun  environment 
 here  so  everything  you  see  that  we're 
 talking  about  in  this  particular  space 
 of  the  garden  is  high  raise  Florida  Sun 
 lovers  so  these  do  a  great  job  of  that 
 um  so  enjoy  them  out  in  your  full  sun  we 
 do  have  a  little  hot  spot  and  we'll  get 
 to  it  in  just  a  second  of  more  of  a  a 
 shaded  spot  the  garden  and  um  and  why 
 it's  a  shaded  spot  in  the  garden  but 
 let's  move  on  to  this  little  area  over 
 here  okay  so  we've  kind  of  done  a  rinse 
 and  repeat  here  with  the  mamy 
 croin  and  I  love  the  Excellence  croin 
 that  we  have  here  as  a  nice  collection  I 
 think  they  offer  a  nice  bit  of  bright 
 and  dark  tones  to  them  and  they're  just 
 gorgeous  this  is  the  end  of  our  pyate 
 Palm  bed  so  you  can  see  see  that  we've 
 got  a  grouping  of  three  here  that  kind 
 of  will  do  a  nice  job  of  giving  us  a 
 hammock  around  this  big  giant  CRP  Myrtle 
 here  there  is  really  going  to  unfold 
 this  and  when  you're  looking  at  it  from 
 the  seating  section  this  is  pretty  much 
 a  direct  view  so  I  love  that  this  is 
 going  to  be  dark  green  a  wall  of  fronds 
 and  mostly  because  it's  going  to  be  the 
 actual  backdrop  to  the  water  feature  so 
 it's  going  to  feel  like  the  water 
 feature  is  amongst  all  those  Tre  all 
 those  palm  frons  and  just  kind  of  look 
 really  really  stunning  in  front  of  it  B 
 and 
 then  back  to  the  back  here  we  have  some 
 uh  anti-l  quar  lines  that  my  client  I 
 believe  Kathy  because  she's  a  gardener 
 at  heart  she  is  going  to  totally  when 
 it's  time  to  trim  these  guys  I'm  going 
 to  come  back  in  a  year  and  these  I'm 
 just  going  to  have  nothing  but  a 
 grouping  of  quarter  lines  this  is  going 
 to  be  a  8ft  wall  of  just  anti-  luk 
 quarter  lines  I  have  a  video  on  this  you 
 guys  if  you  haven't  seen  I  I  hear  all 
 the  time  how  do  you  keep  these  guys  from 
 just  being  a  twig  of  a  plant  in  the 
 garden  and  only  the  top  is  beautiful  oh 
 it's  like  I  want  to  stop  everybody  from 
 from  when  I  see  that  as  I  go  through 
 their  through  down  the  streets  and  I  see 
 that  in  their  Gardens  there  is  a  very 
 very  easy  way  to  keep  them  thick  and 
 dense  and  full  just  by  an  easy  Once  A 
 you're  trimming  and  propagating  back 
 into  the  ground  check  out  this  video  I 
 ask  Bry  to  put  it  up  for  you  guys  for 
 those  of  you  guys  who  haven't  seen  it  I 
 really  felt  like  it  was  a  useful  video 
 and  it  did  really  share  with  you  guys 
 how  to  make  this  a  very  very  dense 
 collection  of  this  grouping  at  8ot  tall 
 and  not  a  woody  stem  in  sight  so  um 
 hopefully  that'll  help  okay  but  now 
 we're  off  to  these  gorgeous  Cho  white 
 copper  leaves  I  mean  look  at  the  size  of 
 this  Leaf  you  guys  it's  absolutely 
 stunning  the  variation  we've  got  half  a 
 leaf  here  that's  completely  green  and 
 another  half  that  is  just  gorgeously 
 speckled  and  bright  in  color  and 
 everyone  seems  to  be  different  I  should 
 call  it  the  snowflake  plant  if  I  start 
 if  I  start  calling  it  that  you  guys  no  I 
 won't  call  it  that  don't  worry  but  some 
 people  do  call  it  the  spotlight  plant 
 and  you  can  see  why  because  it  looks 
 like  a  spotlight  in  the  garden  it's  just 
 absolutely  gorgeous  so  they're  going  to 
 do  a  great  job  as  an  introductory  plant 
 to  all  of  that  dark  dark  foliage  in  the 
 back  look  at  at  those  Louisiana  red 
 copper  leaves  in  the  back  doing  what 
 they  do  it's  going  to  be  a  beautiful 
 layer  of  light  and  dark  and  those  were 
 there  so  I  cannot  take  credit  for  that 
 we  did  thin  them  out  a  a  little  bit  to 
 push  them  back  into  the  corner  because 
 those  have  to  be  controlled  and  behaved 
 and  um  I  um  I  absolutely  love  that  dark 
 dark  tone  mixed  with  all  of  this  layer 
 of  brightness  I  don't  think  it  would 
 have  worked  if  these  Java  whites  were 
 anything  else  because  if  these  were  a 
 lesser  coloration  I  think  this  whole 
 Corner  might  be  too  dark  the  Java  whites 
 really  stepped  up  and  became  the  bright 
 shot  of  light  in  the  garden  so  they're 
 doing  a  nice  job  of  that  now  we  come 
 back  over  here  into  the  king  Sego  which 
 is  more  compact  more  small  it's  a  lower 
 section  of  the  garden  so  here  we  are 
 again  with  low  plants  and  then  a  low 
 backdrop  and  it  looks  like  we've  gotten 
 some  water  Sage  from  the  from  the 
 hurricane  or  the  storms  on  some  of  these 
 blew  my  mind  so  they're  they're  doing  a 
 bit  of  a  struggle  this  was  an  existing 
 planting  with  the  blue  plumbago  here  and 
 then  of  course  their  existing  Crate 
 Myrtle  so  we  worked  with  it  because  it 
 you  know  it's  it  was  such  a  lovely 
 established  pbgo 
 now  this  area  over  here  and  you'll 
 notice  if  you  guys  have  these  Java 
 whites  in  your  garden  if  they're  in  the 
 shade  more  they're  going  to  have  a 
 little  bit  more  of  a  Greener  tone  to 
 them  not  tons  because  they  really  do 
 create  that  brightness  but  the  more  sun 
 they  get  the  more  you'll  get  this 
 brighter  tone  like  you  get  on  this  top 
 oh  my  gosh  it's  just  so  beautiful  so  um 
 so  keep  that  in  mind  as  you  plant  you 
 decide  where  you're  going  to  plant  them 
 and  the  same  with  these  Louisiana  red 
 copper  leaves  the  more  sun  the  more 
 vibrant  the  color 
 so  do  not  be  afraid  to  speckle  these  in 
 your  bright  spots  in  your  garden  because 
 H  gosh  just  I  just  love  it  I  could 
 literally  do  just  my  whole  garden  with 
 these  two  plants 
 and  and  20  others  around  it  so  but  let's 
 let's  just  move  on  this  was  the  area  of 
 the  garden  that  I  was  talking  about  that 
 had  um  more  of  a  shade  environment  which 
 was  fabulous  because  I  love  it  when  you 
 can  mix  and  match  that  in  a  garden  all 
 of  that  full  sun  to  this  area  right  here 
 that  is  more  filtered  light  it  was  more 
 and  more  filtered  light  because  before 
 the  storm  this  tree  was  way  heavier  and 
 um  Kathy  called  me  after  the  storm  and 
 said  I've  had  to  I've  had  to  um  really 
 worry  about  some  of  the  plants  in  here 
 because  that  it's  thinned  out  a  bit  from 
 that  storm  they  had  crazy  tornadoes  in 
 this  area  and  it  just  did  some  damage 
 however  believe  it  or  not  these  plants 
 have  held  up  really  well  in  spite  of  it 
 so  we've  got  some  dwarf  alas  as  our 
 backdrop  you  can  see  a  little  bit  of 
 yellow  yellowing  on  them  and  until  this 
 tree  bounces  back  um  and  then  these  guys 
 oh  my  goodness  these  blooms  I  hope  they 
 come  across  on 
 camera  these  blooms  on  these  ground 
 orchids  this  just  purple  is  just 
 stunning  with  this  little  yellow  Center 
 oh  my  God  it  is  just  so 
 scrumptious  I  would  put  them  everywhere 
 I  have  them  around  my  waterfall  and  love 
 love  love  them  I  just  think  they're  such 
 a  great  ground  Orchid  now  you  do  want  to 
 um  I  don't  know  if  you  NE  we  call  it 
 Dead  Heading  but  those  stems  that  do 
 provide  that  bloom  go  ahead  and  cut  that 
 off  because  it's  not  going  to  do 
 anything  it  will  eventually  fall  off  but 
 it'll  take  forever  so  cut  it  off  for  a 
 nice  clean  plant  but  what  I  love  so  much 
 about  these  plants  is  I  mean  obviously 
 the  blooms  are  gorgeous  and  they  give 
 you  those  Blooms  from  I  would  say  August 
 all  the  way  into  the  winter  season  so  I 
 mean  it's  it's  early  winter  but  into 
 December  they  start  fading  out  and  then 
 they're  going  to  start  up  again  in  late 
 summer  so  um  but  gosh  they  give  you  such 
 a  beautiful  coloring  this  time  of  the 
 year  in  the  fall  and  they  just  really 
 add  to  that  that  those  other  kind  of 
 deep  tone  colors  that  fall  is  known  for 
 well  known  for  everywhere  else  but  in 
 Florida  so  we  have  to  create  that  but 
 the  purples  do  a  fabulous  job  of  doing 
 that  then  we've  got  Rojo  Congos  which 
 you  guys  know  how  I  feel  about  that 
 these  dark  tones  look  at  this  dark  like 
 it's  just  like  a  dark  bronze  coloring 
 that  stems  from  that  red  coloration  in 
 here  and  I  just  I  just  I'm  don't  know 
 what  a  big  what  other  big  paddle  Leaf 
 really  offers  that  kind  of  impact  with 
 the  Reds  and  the  bronzes  and  the  greens 
 and  I  know  you  guys  hear  me  say  this  all 
 the  time  but  I  so  feel  like  Alice  in 
 Wonderland  when  these  guys  are  big  and 
 giant  around  me  I  swear  I'm  going  to 
 take  some  great  photos  of  my  giant  Rojo 
 Congos  in  that  kind  of  fashion  because  I 
 just  think  they're  so  Charming  um  and 
 then  we've  got  Burl  Marks  here  um  AKA 
 Burly  marks  is  what  I  call  them  and  um 
 they're  kind  of  doing  a  great  job  of 
 kind  of  giving  us  a  border  around  these 
 guys  so  when  they  are  big  and  tall  we 
 have  a  nice  defined  border  covering  up 
 any  stems  that  are  unsightly  and  then  it 
 kind  of  just  finishes  off  with  these 
 jobba  whites  in  the  back  so  this  area  is 
 what  I  call  a  very  fluffy  bed  it's  just 
 very  very  nice  very  full  very  soft  and 
 then  it  really  does  do  a  good  job  of 
 balancing  out  all  of  that  color  I  mean 
 just  take  a  look  at  this  all  over  here 
 Bryce  just  surrounded  with  color  in  this 
 back  space  I  still  want  to  apologize  to 
 you  guys  because 
 in  the  midday  this  is  just  glorious  I'm 
 sorry  we're  here  so  late  in  the  evening 
 but  we  wanted  to  bring  this  to  you  guys 
 today  because  it  was  the  end  of  our  day 
 Bryce  wanted  to  try  out  his  camera  and 
 we  really  wanted  to  share  with  you  this 
 beautiful  beautiful  garden  so  I  hope  you 
 guys  enjoyed  it  as  much  as  I  enjoy  it 
 all  right  so  I  will  see  you  guys  in  the 
 very  next  Garden  Tour  do  not  forget  to 
 check  out  our  new  true  Gardener  shirts 
 true  Gardener  wine  glasses  and  coffee 
 mugs  they'll  be  in  the  description  down 
 below  take  care  you  guys  see  you  soon

---

 well  hello  gardeners  welcome  back  so  as 
 you  can  probably  see  we  are  in  my 
 backyard  once  again  I  am  so  happy  to 
 have  you  guys  here  we  have  done  some  fun 
 changes  some  things  that  you  have  not 
 seen  before  so  I  cannot  wait  to  share 
 them  with  you  um  definitely  definitely 
 interesting  definitely  different  than 
 our  normal  tourist  so  I  look  forward  to 
 um  you  know  to  kind  of  just  sharing  it 
 with  my  gardening  Community  you  guys 
 have  been  so  fabulous  and  kind  of  um  you 
 know  just  you  know  giving  me  your  input 
 and  your  thoughts  and  your  kindness  and 
 your  good  words  and  I  you  know  it's  this 
 is  sometimes  when  we  get  in  my  garden 
 I'm  you  know  I'm  not  sure  um  whether  to 
 make  it  a  showand  tell  or  to  make  it 
 more  instructional  so  you  guys  are 
 always  so  complimentary  so  I  just  I  I 
 love  I  love  sharing  these  spaces  with 
 you  guys  so  I'm  going  to  hit  on  a  few 
 points  of  what  we've  done  newly  and  um 
 if  there's  anything  you  want  me  to  go  in 
 more  detail  about  then  just  totally  let 
 me  know  in  the  comments  down  below  so 
 for  those  of  you  guys  who  have  um  seen 
 this  um  this  my  backyard  space  before 
 you  know  I  have  an  extensive  backyard 
 buffer  that  just  feels  like  it  goes  on 
 for  ages  and  you  know  it's  been  in  the 
 works  for  several  years  uh  we  have  a  a 
 really  nice  backdrop  of  um  palm  tree 
 coverage  and  some  just  some  lushness 
 that  you  know  I've  always  always  wanted 
 in  my  garden  and  it  has  grown  in  over 
 the  years  to  kind  of  create  that  nice 
 big  buffer  um  from  the  the  development 
 the  very  very  busy  development  that  we 
 have  just  behind  us  um  and  just  to  give 
 you  guys  those  of  you  guys  who  haven't 
 seen  the  video  in  the  past  just  to  give 
 you  guys  kind  of  an  example  of  what  um 
 what  my  typical  neighborhood  backyard 
 looks  like  Bryce  let's  just  take  a  quick 
 peek  over 
 here  that  way  you  guys  can  see  that  you 
 know  I'm  in  a  subdivision  it  is  um  you 
 know  it's  pretty  much  a  a  a  swath  on 
 each  side  kind  of  a  runway  on  each  sides 
 a  little  patch  of  grass  in  the  back  and 
 the  same  for  the  front  so  this  is  my 
 neighbor's  backyard  so  you  guys  get  to 
 see  kind  of  how  that  slope  works  it  goes 
 all  the  way  up  and  then  that's  a  buffer 
 between  us  and  the  neighbors  um  the  the 
 neighboring  development  so  um  we 
 obviously  had  to  keep  this  grade  and  I 
 know  many  of  you  guys  have  this  cuz  I've 
 worked  in  many  Gardens  where  um  that's 
 something  that  we  need  to  kind  of  work 
 with  because  you  have  to  have  proper 
 drainage  you  know  that's  important  for 
 all  of  us  to  have  so 
 I  have  struggled  and  struggled  and  you 
 guys  know  that  I  am  not  a  sod  fan  for 
 whatever  reason  I  can  grow  plants  and 
 trees  but  not  grass  so  we  did  finally 
 remove  the  sod  I  know  shocker  for  many 
 of  you  guys  but  we  did  finally  remove 
 the  grass  in  the  entire  backyard  space 
 so  I  chose  tahan  greay  Granite  as  our 
 base  and  you  know  I  have  been  to  so  many 
 resorts  so  many  um  botanical  gardens  and 
 I  have  always  and  I  think  I've  I've 
 mentioned  it  a  couple  times  in  videos 
 but  I've  always  loved  the  idea  of  having 
 a  garden  on  both  sides  of  a  walkway  and 
 kind  of  walking  through  your  yard  just 
 like  you  would  walk  through  a  a  a  resort 
 or  or  a  botanical  garden  and  so  I  have 
 always  wanted  this  area  really  to  be  a 
 walkway  and  before  it  was  a  grass 
 walkway  and  it  was  fine  but  it  just  it 
 just  never  stayed  healthy  and  strong  it 
 was  always  diseased  and  troubled  so  now 
 I  have  a  true  walkway  where  we  created  a 
 different  type  of  planting  on  the  other 
 side  so  however  those  of  you  guys  who 
 have  not  had  a  chance  to  see  my  previous 
 garden  tours  and  this  is  kind  of 
 enticing  you  want  to  know  more  about  the 
 plants  and  trees  along  the  buffer  side 
 that  tropical  layered  foliage  I  do  go 
 into  detail  I  did  a  video  a  couple 
 months  ago  that  kind  of  did  an  updated 
 garden  tour  of  the  backyard  space  and  it 
 has  all  the  plant  names  kind  of  what  it 
 loves  soil  types  um  sunlight  types  and 
 just  kind  of  more  detail  about  the 
 existing  buffer  this  is  not  that  video 
 this  video  is  sharing  the  new  stuff  the 
 new  things  that  we've  done  and  for 
 starters  it's  this  kind  of  planting  that 
 we  did  on  this  side  so  I  used  my 
 favorite  edging  here  I  used  buta  edging 
 because  we've  mimicked  that  on  this  side 
 here  and  I  love  how  it  kind  of  comes  in 
 and  gives  me  just  this  grand  opening  but 
 on  this  side  I  have  uh  just  a  cluster  of 
 some  of  my  favorite  plant  groupies  so 
 this  PO  red  cone  Ginger  was  a  transplant 
 from  um  when  we  did  the  pool 
 installation  over  here  so  he's  coming 
 back  um  did  throw  a  bit  of  a  fit 
 definitely  has  some  brown  branches  but 
 definitely  going  to  come  back  and  be 
 beautiful  in  no  time  and  you  see  what 
 these  guys  offer  this  beautiful 
 cone-shaped  Ginger  they  just  kind  of 
 come  over  and  over  and  over  again  all 
 year  long  really  giving  you  that  beauty 
 that  just  gorgeous  gorgeous  V  vibrant 
 red  coloring  so  I  love  seeing  them  I  do 
 let  these  guys  get  about  six  foot  tall 
 because  I  really  like  that  big  just 
 Grand  look  and  they  they  give  you  all  of 
 that  color  and  coverage  on  the  ends  of 
 the  limbs  so  you  kind  of  want  to  let 
 them  get  some  good  size  to  them  now  they 
 do  not  like  cold  so  if  we  get  a  cold 
 snpp  or  freeze  I  cut  them  all  the  way 
 down  to  the  base  I  know  it  seems  harsh 
 but  honestly  that's  what  they  need 
 because  they'll  that  old  growth  will 
 look  old  and  ratty  even  if  you  um  even 
 if  it  you  know  doesn't  have  any  blooms 
 on  it  it'll  just  it'll  have  it'll  be  an 
 old  and  ratty  stem  so  might  as  well  go 
 ahead  and  cut  it  all  the  way  to  the 
 ground  it'll  flush  out  with  a  whole  new 
 one  and  be  very  very  happy  just  do  it 
 all  over  again  for  you  so  we've  got  some 
 Ruby  Reds  again  this  is  not  their  season 
 right  now  they're  a  little  bit  dark  but 
 oh  my  gosh  you  guys  know  how  they  get  um 
 they  go  from  purple  to  a  real  sharp 
 burgundy  as  they  really  grow  in  during 
 the  summer  months  we're  in  the  fall  so 
 they're  really  really  deep  in  tone  but 
 they  will  brighten  and  get  burgundy  in 
 no  time  right  here  we  have  some  ice  tone 
 croin  these  are  shade  croin  so  these  are 
 croin  that  like  filtered  light  and  shade 
 and  you  can  see  when  they  get  a  little 
 bit  of  morning  sun  which  is  the  perfect 
 spot  for  this  this  new  coloration  is  a 
 little  brighter  as  you  get  older  leaves 
 here  it  they'll  turn  a  deeper  tone  with 
 those  Reds  and  pinks  I  just  think 
 they're  absolutely 
 gorgeous  to  the  back  right  there  I 
 needed  brightness  and  you  guys  will 
 notice  that  any  kind  of  have  a  dark  spot 
 in  the  garden  I'll  add  a  bright  pop  of 
 something  so  we've  got  dark  dark  dark 
 right  here  and  then  right  here  we  have 
 deim  bakia  those  are  called  camouflage 
 oh  my  godness  oh  my  goodness  you  guys 
 these  are  just  absolutely  stunning  look 
 at  this  Leaf  color  look  at  this 
 brightness  and  this  is  literally  a  dark 
 spot  behind  this  bottle  Palm  you  know  to 
 the  rear  side  of  this  beautiful  privacy 
 wall  I  mean  it's  just  absolutely 
 stunning  so  I've  got  one  here  one  on  the 
 opposite  side  and  then  right  in  the 
 middle  I  have  Silver  Falls 
 agena  and  it's  so  funny  because  a  lot  of 
 people  think  that  the  trio  of  those  ago 
 defle  AG  defabbia  um  are  indoor  plants 
 and  yes  they  are  they  are  indoor  plants 
 so  back  in  my  day  when  we  um  my  family 
 we  lived  in  Miami  they  had  um  that  was 
 that  was  our  Chinese  Evergreen  that  was 
 our  indoor  plants  and  so  I  am  so  glad  to 
 see  them  outdoors  I  follow  a  architect 
 who  is  in  Key  West  and  love  his  products 
 I'll  get  see  if  I  can  put  up  a  picture 
 if  it's  okay  and  not  copyright  problems 
 but  I'll  put  up  a  picture  of  some  of  the 
 most  gorgeous  designs  he's  done  done 
 with  aginas  in  outdoor  spaces  and  you 
 guys  it  is  just  stunning  having  that 
 brightness  of  color  so  I  tried  it  in  my 
 own  garden  cuz  you  know  how  I  love 
 Gardens  as  their  Labs  cuz  that's  they're 
 a  testing  place  so  I've  tried  alanas 
 here  and  I  think  I've  mentioned  this  in 
 previous  videos  but  they  have  been 
 phenomenal  I'll  get  Bryce  to  pop  in  some 
 clips  of  what  they  look  like  right  now 
 in  my  garden  and  I've  had  them  for  a 
 couple  years  and  they  just  they're  pest 
 free  I've  not  had  any  issu  shes  with 
 them  they  you  can  water  them  you  can 
 underwater  them  either  way  they're  happy 
 um  and  the  the  amount  of  trimming  that 
 I've  done  on  them  is  like  a  big  fat  o  I 
 mean  I  literally  do  very  very  little  to 
 them  so  so  far  they're  one  of  my 
 favorite  plants  in  the  garden  and  as  you 
 can  see  I  keep  adding  more  and  more  to 
 it  because  I  just  love  what  they  do  in 
 the  space  now  I  will  show  you  a  quick 
 glimpse  of  a  deaka  camouflage  as  it's 
 grown  in  which  is  what  caused  me  to  put 
 it  in  the  new  landscape  this  plant  has 
 been  through  two  hurricanes  not  a 
 shredded  leaf  on  it  it  has  been 
 underwater  and  you  know  kind  of  purged 
 it  been  perfectly  fine  this  whole  area 
 right  here  was  underwater  to  my  great 
 lady  statue  and  gosh  you  guys  you 
 wouldn't  even  know  it  it  didn't  even 
 miss  a  beat  even  the  crotin  had  a  little 
 bit  of  tough  time  with  the  water  but 
 they're  bouncing  back  it's  been  about 
 gosh  maybe  a  month  month  and  a  half 
 since  the  last  storm  and  you  know  I  just 
 I  I  love  plants  that  are  tough  I  love 
 plants  that  can  handle  and  just  just 
 roll  with  you  know  what  we're  dealing 
 with  but  these  are  the  camouflage  de  and 
 bakia  they're  fabulous  for  just  a  bright 
 spot  in  a  garden  so  now  this  has  been  a 
 trial  run  so  this  is  I've  not  had  a  full 
 year  of  those  yet  in  my  garden  like  I 
 have  the  aginas  now  what  I  do  know  is  I 
 did  plant  them  in  the  wrong  spot  and  I 
 will  repeat  this  because  as  a  true 
 Gardener  when  you're  trying  new  things 
 out  you  read  the  description  of  what 
 it's  going  to  do  but  it  doesn't  always 
 match  so  these  guys  as  much  as  I  love 
 them  right  where  they're  at  I'll 
 probably  leave  them  until  they  start 
 getting  too  much  height  because  I  do  not 
 want  them  to  cover  my  white  lady  here  I 
 want  them  to  just  be  a  bright  spot  in 
 the  garden  so  I'll  probably  change  these 
 out  for  agena  Silver  Falls  or  Diamond 
 Frost  agena  something  like  that  because 
 they  stay  more  Compact  and  small  these 
 guys  will  eventually  get  a  trunk  to  them 
 which  means  no  problem  I'll  move  them  to 
 the  back  like  I've  learned  my  lesson  and 
 move  them  to  the  back  over  here  as  a  new 
 planting  behind  this  bottle  pond  so 
 there'll  be  a  nice  bright  spot  of 
 clustering  allowing  them  to  get  four  or 
 five  foot  tall  in  that  particular  spot 
 so  we're  just  always  learning  and  you 
 know  don't  be  hard  on  yourself  if  you 
 come  across  the  same  problem  because  it 
 just  happens  to  all  of  us  so  but  so 
 camouflage  def  bakia  awesome  just  put 
 them  in  a  spot  they  can  get  a  bit  big  so 
 let's  move 
 on  um  right  here  I  have  Excellence  croin 
 I  know  you  guys  may  have  seen  them  in 
 the  previous  video  Even  though  you're 
 not  seeing  the  Sun  hit  these  guys  right 
 now  most  of  the  day  they  get  good  good 
 Sun  um  these  guys  were  about  8T  tall 
 they  were  right  into  this  range  and  well 
 taller  cuz  I'm  kind  of  short  they  were 
 nice  and  Tall  up  here  and  gorgeous  with 
 color  but  this  is  where  we  put  the  new 
 dip  pool  in  and  this  is  our  privacy  wall 
 I  know  you  guys  haven't  seen  that  we're 
 going  to  get  into  that  in  just  a  minute 
 but  um  they  um  they  were  gorgeous  and 
 big  and  full  and  I  could  see  them  from 
 my  bedroom  window  which  now  doors  which 
 we're  going  to  get  to  in  just  a  second 
 but  they're  um  they're  fabulous  they've 
 been  cut  back  severely  I  have  new  growth 
 all  over  them  so  in  no  time  they  will  be 
 up  over  this  wall  giving  us  that  same 
 bright  Vibrance  of  color  from  that  spot 
 so  I  cannot  wait  for  that  to  happen  but 
 we  kept  them  they're  strong  they're 
 older  croin  and  you  guys  that  have  older 
 croin  and  are  kind  of  on  the  fence  on 
 whether  to  take  them  out  or  not  um  if 
 they  still  have  really  nice  Le  leaves 
 and  they  just  kind  of  need  to  be  cut 
 back  cut  them  back  because  your  older 
 croin  with  with  um  bigger  stems  like  you 
 see  here  they're  going  to  hold  up  to 
 Pest  and  um  cold  fronts  and  all  of  that 
 way  way  more  than  your  younger  croin  are 
 because  there's  so  established  so  if 
 they're  decent  coloration  and  you  kind 
 of  like  them  maybe  you  want  to  add  a 
 different  color  flare  to  the  bottom  of 
 them  like  I  like  I  did  here  go  ahead  and 
 do  that  but  keep  keep  the  cottin  because 
 it  takes  a  long  time  for  croin  to  become 
 hardened  off  where  they  become  a  really 
 really  tough  plant  these  guys  are  pretty 
 indestructible  I  mean  I'd  have  to  have  a 
 frost  into  the  20s  for  them  to  really 
 really  not  pop  back  so  go  ahead  and  keep 
 your  croin  and  cut  them  back  and  then 
 let  them  flush  out  with  all  new  growth 
 and  you  will  be  so  rewarded  by  it  down 
 here  down  at  the  bottom  these  croin  are 
 called  dreads  they're  so  cool  I  just 
 love  their  messiness  their  craziness 
 that  dread  light  curl  to  their  leaves  I 
 just  think  they're  going  to  be  fabulous 
 in  that  spot  now  I've  got  one  um  that's 
 a  little  bit  bigger  if  you  go  to  your 
 left  there  Bryce  you're  going  to  see  it 
 it's  a  little  bit  bigger  above  the  sesia 
 and  it's  just  one  by  itself  there  but  I 
 can't  wait  for  these  guys  to  get  more  in 
 size  of  what  that  guy  is  doing 
 there  going  to  be  stunning  and  he's  not 
 even  in  his  prime  yet  he's  he  gets  good 
 Sun  cuz  he's  popping  out  right  in  that 
 perfect  location  and  I  can't  wait  for 
 him  to  flush  out  and  become  just  big  and 
 like  I  don't  know  I  kind  of  love  that 
 idea  of  being  framing  with  nice  tight 
 sesia  all  the  way  around  it  framing  that 
 big  giant  kind  of  curl  kind  of  front  or 
 kind  of  uh  Leaf  over  it  because  and 
 that's  what  gardening  is  about  it's  the 
 contrast  of  things  so  contrast  with 
 color  contrast  with  texture  contrast 
 with  shape  and  sizes  so  I  think  it's 
 going  to  totally  do  that  I  cannot  wait 
 to  show  you  guys  that  as  it  matures  so 
 all  right  so  that  brings  us  to  the  end 
 of  the  little  beauty  edging  section  and 
 then 
 I  had  this  area  now  this  area  has  always 
 been  my  problem  area  this  area  drops 
 into  a  um  the  lower  part  of  the  garden 
 so  anytime  we  got  rain  anytime  we  got 
 anything  that  was  um  you  know  just  any 
 kind  of  sitting  water  at  all  it  things 
 suffered  so  what  I  decided  to  do  is 
 we've  got  some  Tennessee  Fieldstone 
 Boulders  and  I  raise  this  area  up  and 
 you  guys  sometimes  it  only  needs  to  be  6 
 in  it  doesn't  need  to  be  something  you 
 know  a  huge  and  a  big  retaining  wall  but 
 I  raised  this  area  up  you  want  to  make 
 sure  that  you  put  the  flattest  part  of 
 the  boulder  on  the  bottom  so  that  way 
 you  really  do  see  as  much  of  that  flat 
 side  at  that  bottom  to  kind  of  give  you 
 more  of  an  even  Keel  even  if  you  got  to 
 drop  it  down  cuz  the  whole  idea  is  if 
 you  like  if  you  saw  this  this  trench 
 that  we  made  here  you  know  this  few  inch 
 trench  it's  going  to  be  lower  and  higher 
 and  lower  and  higher  because  it  was  set 
 to  fit  the  boulders  so  that  way  the 
 boulders  look  straight  but  it's  really 
 just  kind  of  a  nice  overall  look  of  a  a 
 change  up  of  style  and  I  made  this  more 
 of  like  a  heavy  Sun  heavy  succulent  type 
 of  garden  so  I've  got  um  blue  flame 
 Agave  right  here  they're  kind  of  babies 
 they're  young  but  they're  going  to  be  so 
 cool  as  a  trio  right  there  and  they 
 don't  get  huge  so  I  think  they're  going 
 to  be  fantastic  they  can  handle  more 
 water  so  that's  why  I  chose 
 those  to  the  left  of  those  right  there 
 I've  got  a  tree  Jasmine  which  I  love  the 
 trunks  when  those  guys  get  some  SE  some 
 serious  size  to  them  and  I  am  going  to 
 let  that  guy  get  nice  and  wide  and  big 
 and  really  just  kind  of  be  like  the 
 entrance  to  this  little  succulent  garden 
 space  a  little  swath  of  fox  taale  ferns 
 you  can  see  I  had  the  fox  taale  ferns 
 that  kind  of  curve  this  way  while  I  had 
 the  Agave  that  curve  that  way  you  guys 
 know  how  I  feel  about  my  curves  so  I 
 think  that's  when  everything  grows  in 
 it's  just  going  to  be  so  fabulous  and 
 then  this  this  is  a  male  FAL  agave  and 
 he's  going  to  get  6  to  7t  tall  he  is 
 going  to  be  the  structure  the  anchor  in 
 this  bed  and  he  is  going  to  be  just  so 
 scrumptious  I  cannot  wait  till  he 
 actually  kind  of  gets  some  cool  size  to 
 him  and  really  shows  off  as  like  this  is 
 an  anchor  in  this  garden  bed  and  just  I 
 mean  it's  just  going  to  be  fabulous  so 
 and  then  we  wanted  this  bed  to  be 
 different  than  the  rest  of  the  beds 
 because  there's  a  lot  going  on  on  the 
 left  side  and  then  we've  got  a  cro  bed 
 on  this  side  and  you  know  I  kind  of 
 wanted  this  bed  to  have  its  own  identity 
 and  its  own  own  space  just  kind  of  like 
 when  you  walk  through  a  Botanical  Garden 
 you'll  go  through  one  section  that'll  be 
 just  kind  of  one  region  one  you  know  one 
 bit  of  Interest  well  I  can't  change  the 
 type  of  plant  material  through  that 
 grouping  of  of  different  regions  but  I 
 can  you  know  change  the  style  so  when 
 you  walk  through  you  feel  like  you  see 
 something  a  little  different  every  time 
 you  walk  through  the  garden  which  is 
 what  I  do  often  walk  through  this  Garden 
 so  I  ended  up  doing  um  River  Jacks  along 
 the  bottom  base  of  the  bed  and  I  just 
 laid  the  flat  ones  in  and  then  just  kind 
 of  Polished  in  some  riverjack  some  small 
 River  Jacks  in  between  the  cracks  there 
 and  I  think  it  looks  so  lovely  I  think 
 it's  just  a  new  look  it's  interesting  it 
 kind  of  helps  support  the  spareness  of 
 the  plants  that  I  chose  for  this 
 particular  bed  where  we  have  such  a  a 
 heavy  um  grouping  of  plants  everywhere 
 else  where  there's  mulch  because  mulch 
 is  obviously  you  know  not  very 
 interesting  but  this  area  you  do  get  to 
 see  those  Cool  River  Jacks  with  some 
 with  some  gravel  in  between  um  as  this 
 matures 
 so  um  and  then  I've  got  some  lady  Claire 
 um  yellow  and  green  crottin  I  love  this 
 long  leaf  this  variation  it's  such  a 
 slow  growing  croin  I  needed  something 
 right  by  my  patio  area  to  not  be 
 something  that  will  just  take  over  where 
 I'm  constantly  trimming  this  grows  so 
 slow  is  not  you  know  crazy  crazy  plant 
 to  work  with  and  it's  going  going  to  be 
 gorgeous  right  here  and  the  same  reason 
 that's  the  same  reason  why  I  chose  these 
 um  these  um  Mami  croin  for  that  because 
 they  just  grow  so  slow  they  kind  of  keep 
 almost  ball  likee  where  you  get  that 
 fiery  kind  of  color  in  the  leaf  but  it's 
 just  not  something  that  you're  going  to 
 turn  around  tomorrow  and  you're  going  to 
 be  like  I  got  to  take  two  foot  off  it's 
 crazy  so  um  and  then  right 
 here  we  have  the  Madagascar  palm  which 
 is  not  a  palm  it's  in  the  cacti  family 
 it  is  um  you  know  she's  angry  she's  a 
 little  bit  feisty  with  her  thorns  and 
 and  she  has  a  right  to  be  because  I'll 
 tell  you  what  happened  to  her  we  brought 
 her  in  she  had  this  cool  trunk  that  went 
 this  way  cool  trunk  that  went  that  way 
 and  then  she  had  an  awesome  rear  trunk 
 that  curved  out  nice  and  deep  going  this 
 way  well  that  trunk  was  damaged  in 
 transport  this  one  here  and  um  I  was  all 
 four  trying  to  kind  of  hold  it  on  hold 
 on  to  it  repair  it  see  if  we  can  make  it 
 work  but  then  we  thought  the  only  area 
 that  we  had  high  enough  to  keep  her  out 
 of  um  having  wet  feet  because  this  lower 
 section  can  get  wet  and  moist  so  in 
 order  to  put  her  here  we  were  worried 
 about  having  to  kind  of  walk  through  the 
 garden  and  not  get  hit  with  this  trunk 
 and  my  husband  and  I'm  going  tell  you 
 you  know  he's  a  good  guy  but  he  decided 
 to  amputate  her  arm  and  notes  to  me  then 
 I  came  back  and  it  was  it  was  cut  fun 
 game  of  limbo  it's  Bryce  says  Bryce  said 
 it  would  have  been  a  fun  game  of  limbo 
 and  I  agree  I'm  okay  with  the  trees 
 being  in  the  way  but  I  get  it  she  has 
 thorns  so  so  other  she's  she's  been  very 
 very  happy  here  she's  thrown  out  new 
 limbs  that  are  kind  of  crazy  and  wonky 
 and  you  know  what  if  if  you  guys  look  at 
 this  like  I  look  at  this  I  to  me  those 
 look  like  Angry  Angry  squirrels  don't 
 they  I  mean  like  she  just  didn't  there 
 was  no  there  was  hairy  Cary  it  was  just 
 like  just  throwing  them  out  all  Every 
 Which  Way  I  just  think  that  that  was  so 
 cool  she  gives  me  that  Medusa  Vibe  and 
 um  so  so  you  know  that's  the  kind  of 
 look  that  that  she's  offering  here  in 
 the  garden  but  I  absolutely  love  her 
 I've  tucked  the  bed  all  the  way  around 
 her  Incorporated  this  rock  bed  um  with 
 this  tree  and  she  is  just  fabulous  and  a 
 staple  in  my  garden  that's  the 
 Madagascar  palm  that's  not  really  a  palm 
 so  um  then  right  here  you  guys  know  I 
 did  imperialis  verm  milads  I've  done 
 this  video  on  how  much  I  love  these  guys 
 love  the  purple  tinge  to  it  you  see  how 
 much  sun  we  get  this  is  a  spot  that  gets 
 bounce  back  heat  from  the  deck  gets  Sun 
 from  the  I  mean  just  just  afternoon  sun 
 so  they're  doing  so  fabulous  so  well  and 
 um  I  just  think  they're  just  such  a 
 tough  overall  imperialis  now  that  purple 
 comes  from  a  little  bit  more  sun  if  you 
 look  down  at  this  one  here  this  one  here 
 has  less  sun  because  this  fantastic 
 Spindle 
 Palm  is  doing  it  a  kindness  by  creating 
 a  little  bit  of  palm  shade  from  this  guy 
 and  then  so  all  of  these  fronds  that  are 
 here  are  offering  a  little  protection 
 from  this  guy  which  makes  him  more  green 
 and  less  purple  so  that's  you're  going 
 to  get  those  two  different  types  of  uh 
 plants  if  you  get  the  imperialis  filad 
 where  some  will  be  you  know  those  colors 
 if  they're  in  the  mor  sun  and  then  some 
 will  be  more  green  if  they're  in  the 
 shades  so  it's  really  um  really  a  cool 
 and  very  adaptable  plant  and  there's  one 
 more  plant  I  want  to  show  you  in  this 
 back  before  we  make  our  way  up  front  and 
 I'm  sorry  I  didn't  hit  it  as  we  were 
 walking  past  it  but  it  is 
 so  cool  come  just  turn  around  and  take  a 
 look  here  I  feel  like  I  totally  geek  out 
 when  it  comes  to  plants  and  trees  but  um 
 this  is  a  Coronada  it's  panga  Coronada 
 and  it  is  a  very  slow  growing  um  a  lot 
 of  people  I  I'm  sure  can  confuse  it  with 
 an  a  palm  but  to  me  it  has  much  tighter 
 much  broader  limbs  very  very  upright 
 grows  super  super  slow  and  I  love  how 
 it's  more  vertical 
 and  then  it  has  a  little  bit  of  that 
 curve  where  the  Eureka  Palms  have  real 
 long  arching  branches  and  are  more  kind 
 of  wispy  more  kind  of  floaty  where  these 
 guys  are  more  upright  more  um  com 
 compact  I'm  getting  ready  to  use  them  in 
 a  courtyard  Garden  setting  that  we're 
 creating  and  um  I  think  they're  going  to 
 do  super  super  well  because  it's  got 
 screens  on  both  sides  so  I  need  to  be 
 really  careful  with  having  something 
 vertical  and  I  know  they're  going  to  do 
 it  fabulously  as  a  pair  on  each  side  of 
 the  walkway  so  that's  um  that's  my  new 
 tree  that  I've  really  really  enjoyed 
 having  in  my  garden  it's  grown  well  for 
 the  period  of  time  that  it's  been  here 
 and  I  just  absolutely  love  it  now  for 
 those  of  you  guys  who  remember  the 
 previous  video  know  the  Obi  Island  Palm 
 was  here  and  it  was  fine  it  handled  the 
 storms  well  but  I  did  move  him  to  just 
 the  backdrop  here  because  I  wanted 
 something  a  little  more  dense  like  like 
 this  tree  here  versus  the  Obi  Island  the 
 Obi  island  is  going  to  do  a  great  job 
 but  it's  going  to  Leaf  out  where  this 
 guy  is  going  to  give  me  that  compact 
 tropical  look  so  so  I  hope  you  guys  um 
 hope  you  guys  can  see  that  and  like  that 
 just  as  much  so  very  very  cool 
 tree  okay  so  now  for  the  fun 
 stuff  so  I  know  that  this  is  not  an  area 
 that  I  share  very  often  with  you  guys 
 because  this  has  been  here  a 
 very  long  time  you  know  we  had  an  old 
 existing  deck  here  with  the  fireplace 
 here  and  as  much  as  I  love  that  for 
 years  it  was  kind  of  time  to  change  for 
 something  new  so  let  me  start  by  start 
 by  kind  of  just  telling  you  a  little 
 story  I'll  make  it  quick  on  how  this 
 whole  thing  evolved  so  I  guess  it's  been 
 honestly  it's  been  about  six  years  now 
 six  years  ago  my  husband  and  I  we  did  we 
 went  to  a  beautiful  little  Resort  um  in 
 the  Dominican  Republic  and  it  um  gosh  it 
 had  these  like  little  Cabanas  out  there 
 that  um  were  the  back  bedrooms  or  the 
 Suites  that  you  stayed  in  opened  up  to 
 this  little  Courtyard  setting  so  this 
 was  like  a  little  walled  Courtyard  it 
 was  like  the  size  of  a  master  bedroom 
 really  it  wasn't  very  big  but  it  had  a 
 dip  pool  in  there  a  little  table  to  have 
 your  coffee  and  it  was  just  so  so 
 Charming  that  I  knew  from  that  point  on 
 that  that  was  what  I  wanted  to  create  in 
 my  own  space  and  so  it  has  been  years  in 
 the  making  I  have  researched  I've  looked 
 into  different  pool  companies  I  have  um 
 it  it's  it's  been  pretty  endless  where  I 
 haven't  really  found  exactly  what  I'm 
 looking  for  and  what  I  did  find  I  just 
 couldn't  really  afford  it's  something 
 that  I  can't  wait  to  share  with  you  guys 
 because  I  feel  like  for  the  price  I  I 
 reive  such  a  big  value  and  I'm  one  of 
 those  people  if  you  come  in  my  house  and 
 you  see  something  great  I'm  quick  to 
 tell  you  oh  I  got  that  on  sale  or  I  got 
 that  at  Target  or  I'm  just  one  of  those 
 people  so  this  exactly  what  I  want  to 
 share  with  you  guys  on  the  pool  space 
 and  the  um  and  the  outdoor  um  privacy 
 wall  so  so  first  we'll  start  with  these 
 cool  pavers  I  got  these  are  Castle  skap 
 pavers  they  are  16  by 
 24  hey  you  guys  I  thought  I'd  pop  in 
 here  for  just  a  sec  and  let  you  know 
 that  um  I  have  no  affiliation  with  the 
 Contracting  Company  the  um  Pool  Company 
 the  paper  company  I  just  wanted  to  be 
 able  to  to  share  with  you  what  I  found 
 and  where  I  found  it  in  hopes  that  it 
 might  be  helpful  but  I'll  let  you  get 
 back  to  the  video  um  and  linear  fashion 
 now  I  know  a  lot  of  people  like  the 
 random  pattern  but  I  was  really  worried 
 about  the  size  of  this  deck  and  bringing 
 it  too  much  random  pattern  would  have 
 made  it  a  little  busy  so  I  wanted  a  nice 
 long  linear  pattern  that  opened  up  into 
 that  secondary  space  and  I'm  so  glad 
 that  we  went  this  direction  now  my 
 pavers  um  previously  had  kind  of  little 
 rounded  Corners  all  to  them  which  is 
 what  your  typical  pavers  do  I  love  these 
 flat  Corners  I  love  the  way  these  joints 
 measure  up  it  does  cause  it  does  mean 
 that  your  um  your  installer  has  to  do  a 
 little  bit  more  compacting  to  make  sure 
 everything  stays  nice  and  level  but  to 
 me  it  gives  it  more  of  a  contemporary 
 look  so  it's  so  so  worth  it  um  these 
 were  real  cost  effective  your 
 traditional  paer  size  I  think  they  were 
 like  $4  a  a  foot  I  mean  it  it  was  just 
 really  really  happy  with  what  we 
 received  for  it  but  I'll  be  sure  to  list 
 the  company  that  we  um  we  purchased  them 
 from  down  below  I  have  no  affiliation 
 with  them  but  again  anytime  you  find 
 something  cool  I'm  going  to  share  it  so 
 let's  move 
 on  so  this  is  part  of  the  courtyard 
 setting  that  I  was  meaning 
 um  this  is  our  just  private  little 
 space  and  if  you  guys  are  like  me  and 
 just  always  want  to  include  a  little  bit 
 of  water  in  your  outdoor  space  just 
 someplace  that  at  the  end  of  the  day  you 
 just  kind  of  want  to  get  into  not  a  big 
 pool  not  a  giant  you  know  entertaining 
 spot  for  pool  but  something  more  for 
 yourself  something  more  to  relax  and  for 
 you  your  husband  or  your  wife  or  you 
 know  just  a  kind  of  a  small  space  then 
 this  this  just  might  be  exactly  what 
 you're  looking  for  because  it  was 
 exactly  what  I  was  looking  for  so  I 
 contacted  so  many  pool  companies  I  got 
 prices  between  50  and  100  plus  thousand 
 um  on  installing  a  pool  not  in  my  price 
 range  unfortunately  so  I  did  find  a 
 company  called  fibro  um  they're  out  of 
 Canada  they're  based  out  of  Canada  um 
 but  they  do  have  a  great  sales  office  um 
 with  a  Salesman  his  name  is  laurant  um 
 and  he  helped  us  with  this  particular 
 pool  um  this  pool  what  I  liked  most 
 about  it  is  it  was  pretty  much  I  can't 
 say  it  was  a  plug  andplay  cuz  it  was  not 
 it  took  some  work  getting  it  in  here  but 
 what  I  did  like  about  it  is  did  not  have 
 to  drill  any  holes  for  the  um  for  the  um 
 pipes  themselves  or  the  lighting  itself 
 it  was  pretty  much  readymade  sink  and 
 attach  which  is  fabulous  hire  a  good 
 plumber  hire  a  good  um  electrician  and 
 voila  done  it's  just  it  was  pretty 
 pretty  nice  getting  it  um  getting  it 
 situated  now  we  do  have  a  landscape 
 company  so  I  do  know  how  that  you  know 
 cuts  to  the  chase  there  um  with  how  that 
 helped  us  but  I  did  um  recently  come 
 across  a  fabulous  contractor  who's  doing 
 the  installations  now  for  fibro  it  is  T4 
 pools  his  name  is  Andrew  and  he's 
 fantastic  to  work  with  he  does 
 fiberglass  pools  huh  put  in  the 
 description  okay  yes  but  I  said  we'll 
 put  in  the  description  so  he  and  does 
 fiberglass  installations  for  pools  and 
 you  know  I  don't  know  if  you  guys  have 
 been  through  this  but  it's  pretty  hard 
 to  get  prices  from  pool  companies  and 
 Andrew  was  so  transparent  that  he  gave 
 me  prices  not  just  for  this  pool  of  what 
 it  would  cost  to  get  it  in  the  ground 
 which  I'll  tell  you  guys  exactly  what 
 that  was  in  a  moment  but  he  went  into 
 detail  of  the  next  pool  size  the  next 
 pool  size  all  the  way  up  to  I  think  like 
 a  40ft  pool  I  mean  so  they  they  they  do 
 all  sizes  and  this  pool  for  us  to  put  it 
 in  ranged  around 
 25,000  was  was  our  final  number  for  this 
 kind  of  to  get  in  now  that  took  out  you 
 know  we  did  the  labor  we  had  our  own 
 equipment  there  was  a  lot  of  work 
 involved  and  there  was  a  lot  of 
 logistics  getting  involved  in  this  back 
 space  with  all  my  Landscaping  so  there 
 was  work  with  that  but  um  Andrew  I  think 
 he  puts  everything  in  just  like  you  see 
 it  here  not  the  decking  of  course  and 
 not  the  surrounding  barriers  but  he  puts 
 it  in  for  35  and  it's  a  done  deal  gets 
 you  passed  through  the  county  or  the 
 city  and  um  all  your  permitting  and  all 
 that  fun  stuff  that  you  know  you  don't 
 want  to  deal  with  um  he  he  handles  all 
 of  that  and  so  all  the  list  will  be  down 
 below  in  the  description  you  guys  check 
 that  out  if  that's  kind  of  what  you're 
 looking  for  because  I  felt  like  those 
 were  really  really  good  deals  to  get 
 some  just  some  water  in  your  backyard  so 
 anyway  this  um  this  is  an  8  by  12 
 fiberglass  pool  and  it  comes  with  one 
 light  surrounded  by  Jets  it  has  a  nice 
 Shaz  Lounge  on  two  sides  and  I've  just 
 that's  kind  of  where  I  just  relax  now  I 
 will  tell  you  that  when  I  first  thought 
 about  putting  a  pool  in  this  back  space 
 I  wanted  the  10  by  16  um  that  was  the 
 perfect  size  for  what  I  I  thought  would 
 fit  back  here  and  it's  funny  how  things 
 work  out  for  a  reason  because  I  was 
 worried  that  this  was  just  like  a  little 
 mini  pool  you  know  it  was  just  like  too 
 small  for  for  what  I  wanted  um  but  the 
 way  I  use  it  when  I'm  working  out  in  the 
 garden  on  the  week  weekends  I  get  in 
 this  pool  at  the  end  of  the  day  float 
 around  in  a  little  float  relax  in  the 
 cool  water  it's  perfect  um  but  most  of 
 the  time  it's  after  work  in  the  evening 
 hours  I'll  come  in  and  stick  this  heater 
 on  98  I'll  get  into  this  grab  a  glass  of 
 wine  and  enjoy  it  for  the  evening  it's  a 
 saltwater  pool  so  I  just  feel  like  the 
 Magnesium  I'm  just  like  soaking  up  all 
 the  goodness  you  know  I  just  feel  so 
 relaxed  so  refreshed  getting  into  it  in 
 the  evening  hours  and  if  it  were  a  10  by 
 16 
 I  I  don't  think  that  I  would  be  so 
 liberal  with  my  electric  bill  you  know 
 or  if  it  were  a  bigger  pool  the  mere 
 fact  that  I  can  use  this  like  a  pool 
 when  I  want  to  but  use  it  the  way  that  I 
 normally  would  use  it  which  is  like  a 
 Jacuzzi  is  is  ideal  so  turns  out  this  is 
 the  pool  that  I  needed  in  the  long  run 
 and  I'm  absolutely  happy  with  it  I  chose 
 a  nice  coping  in  Platinum  just  like  I 
 have  the  pavers  here  and  I  think  that 
 they  look  fabulous  we  had  this  existing 
 um  existing  wall  that  my  friend  Rec 
 put  up  and  my  husband  put  up  all  these 
 great  hooks  so  we  can  bang  our  towels 
 and  and  just  make  this  our  little  Resort 
 our  little  Courtyard  geta  away  um  which 
 is  exactly  what  it  is  we  added  this 
 privacy  wall  so  in  Indian  River  County 
 you  have  to  have  a  44  54  in  kind  of 
 barrier  um  a  structural  barrier  from 
 your  from  your  pool  so  we  have  this 
 patio  which  is  a  nice  size  perfect 
 height  we  were  gifted  these  um  U 
 channels  here  here  and  these  frames  here 
 these  nice  structural  I  mean  this  is 
 just  heavyduty  uh  from  Toya  grid  they 
 were  fabulous  to  work  with  I  talked  with 
 their  customer  service  to  ask  them  a  few 
 questions  they  were  fantastic  now  these 
 U  channels  are  naturally  set  for  like 
 slat  work  just  regular  slats  that  go  in 
 and  then  you  just  seal  them  into  place 
 here  um  but  because  we  had  the  loued 
 wood  on  this  side  I  kind  of  wanted  it  to 
 have  a  louvered  feel  here  so  we  kind  of 
 um  put  put  in  some  wedges  into  this  area 
 and  kind  of  created  our  own  louvered 
 wall  but  these  bases  are  made  for  6x6 
 columns  and  we  did  have  to  shave  these 
 down  router  these  these  out  a  little  bit 
 because  we  had  pressure  treated  wood  and 
 it  swells  so  we  had  to  shrink  them  down 
 but  you  guys  once  they  got  into  this  it 
 was  like  instant  solid  I  was  very  very 
 happy  with  this  kind  of  structure  this 
 powder  coater  powder  powder  coated  steel 
 it's  just  like  tough  and  strong  and 
 um  I  feel  like  this  is  just  going  to 
 handle  the  storms  that  I  know  that  are 
 inevitable  here  so  um  so  Toya  grid  is  a 
 fabulous  product  I  will  be  sure  to  put 
 them  in  the  link  or  in  the  description 
 down  below  and  put  a  nice  little  link 
 there  so  that  way  you  guys  if  you're 
 looking  to  do  a  privacy  wall  I'll  get 
 Bryce  to  post  some  pictures  of  what  it 
 looked  like  as  it  was  being  installed 
 just  to  kind  of  give  you  guys  a  general 
 idea  but  um  fabulous  company  and  they 
 were  nice  enough  to  gift  us  this  um  this 
 the  this  not  the  wood  but  this  for  free 
 and  then  of  course  the  wood  we  got  from 
 Home  Depot  and  what  else  we  got  from 
 Home  Depot  that  was  not  a  gift  but  it 
 was  around  about  $1,800  which  I  thought 
 was  a  great  buy  for  these 
 doors  um  these  are  um  sliding  glass 
 doors  and  this  goes  to  our  bedroom  which 
 was  once  a  window  which  I  just  love  that 
 you  can  walk  out  here  get  into  the  pool 
 into  the  evening  and  this  is  completely 
 private  this  is  completely  sealed  off  so 
 this  is  the  courtyard  that  that  I  you 
 know  that  I  always  imagined  it  being  I'm 
 just  so  so  very  thrilled  with  how  this 
 turned  out  and  how  we  get  to  enjoy  these 
 weekends  you  know  Bryce  and  I  were 
 sitting  out  here  earlier  and  I  was  like 
 you  know  I  kind  of  want  to  share  with 
 everybody  this  space  and  I  want  it  to  be 
 a  show  and  tell  um  but  I  kind  of  don't 
 want  it  to  be  like  hey  look  what  I've 
 got  you  know  and  so  because  I'm  so  I 
 don't  know  I'm  just  so  cautious  of  over 
 that  and  Bryce  is  like  no  just  let 
 people  know  how  you  really  enjoy  it  and 
 he  was  so  right  because  you  know  I  think 
 that  shares  inspiration  with  everybody 
 um  these  are  things  that  I  have  done 
 over  time  time  and  I  kind  of  in  some 
 cases  didn't  know  that  I  even  wanted 
 until  I  visited  those  Resorts  just  like 
 I  didn't  know  that  I  wanted  a  pathway 
 through  my  whole  yard  until  I  visited 
 some  of  the  most  beautiful  botanical 
 gardens  going  to  Fair  child  going  to 
 just  I  just  going  to  all  of  the  spaces 
 that  I've  been  to  in  Resorts  where 
 they've  got  these  Meandering  Pathways 
 where  you've  got  a  garden  on  this  side 
 and  a  garden  on  that  side  and  you're 
 carrying  your  your  glass  of  wine  or  your 
 cup  of  coffee  in  the  morning  and  it's 
 just  like  geez  you  know  I  I  want  I  want 
 this  where  I'm  not  spending  thousands  of 
 dollars  on  a  trip  somewhere  else  far  far 
 away  I  want  this  in  my  own  home  where  I 
 can  walk  out  my  bedroom  doors  and  walk 
 into  the  pathway  and  just  kind  of  see 
 who's  doing  what  and  who's  got  attitude 
 today  and  who  you  know  who's  blooming 
 and  you  know  that's  that's  a  part  of 
 being  a  gardener  in  Florida  which  is 
 what  I  love  is  we  have  365  days  a  year 
 where  we  get  to  enjoy  the  outdoor  space 
 do  we  enjoy  it  less  in  June  and  July 
 absolutely  but  you  know  we  do  have  that 
 time  where  we  get  to  um  we  get  to  just 
 be  outside  um  where  a  lot  of  people 
 can't  so  I  am  um  if  you  guys  are  one  of 
 those  guys  and  you're  watching  this  in 
 December  then  I  hope  you're  kind  of 
 feeling  the  sunshine  a  little  Vitamin  D 
 from  this  video  because  that's  what  it's 
 for  that's  for  it's  for  us  to  share 
 those  moments  those  special  those 
 special  things  with  you  guys  so  so  I 
 hope  you're  getting  that  from  the  video 
 if  you  run  across  any  questions  about 
 anything  that  um  that  we've  went  over 
 today  then  please  share  it  in  the 
 comments  down  below  and  I'll  be  happy  to 
 answer  your  questions  and  um  if  there's 
 anything  specific  that  you  want  to  see  a 
 little  bit  more  of  if  you  want  to  see 
 more  of  an  updated  tour  in  the  winter 
 time  of  how  the  garden  is  doing  then  let 
 me  know  because  I  contemplated  doing 
 that  but  I  don't  want  to  over  overwhelm 
 you  guys  with  the  the  backyard  garden  or 
 the  front  yard  Garden  so  you  just  let  me 
 know  if  that's  something  that  you  would 
 love  to  see  so  other  than  that  I  will 
 see  you  guys  in  the  very  next  Garden 
 Tour  and  it's  been  my  absolute  pleasure 
 having  you  guys  at  my  home  and  enjoying 
 this  with  you  guys  this  evening  so  I 
 will  see  you  guys  soon  take  care 
 gardeners

---

 hello  gardeners  welcome  back  so  today  we 
 are  in  store  for  another  backyard  pool 
 Garden  Tour  so  this  is  going  to  be  a  fun 
 one  this  is  one  that  we  finished  just  a 
 few  months  ago  um  so  it's  a  very  very 
 new  Garden  um  we  did  the  backyard  and 
 then  a  couple  weeks  ago  we  came  in  we 
 did  some  touches  in  the  front  yard  so 
 we'll  share  all  of  that  with  you  guys 
 and  um  yeah  I  think  you're  you're  really 
 going  to  like  it  we  had  some  some  um 
 some  problem  it  was  some  some  problem 
 areas  first  of  all  we  don't  have  a  lot 
 of  room  to  work  with  in  the  back  so  if 
 that's  you  guys  if  you  guys  have  a 
 screen  room  a  pool  area  and  you  only 
 have  like  a  little  slip  around  there  for 
 some  plantings  to  make  an  impact  then 
 this  video  is  for  you  because  we  were 
 able  to  jam-pack  quite  a  bit  of  fun 
 material  into  a  very  very  narrow  space 
 um  when  I  first  met  um  Renee  and  Mick 
 they  um  they  had  a  really  good  idea  for 
 what  they  wanted  and  because  they 
 researched  so  much  of  what  they  were 
 looking  for  on  YouTube  which  is  how  they 
 found  me  they  really  had  a  really  good 
 grip  on  what  they  were  hoping  to  see  in 
 their  Florida  garden  they  moved  here 
 from  Arizona  and  so  they  bought  this 
 house  a  couple  years  ago  it's  a  70s 
 models  house  a  70  model  house  and  they 
 wanted  to  um  renovate  it  and  kind  of 
 open  up  some  walls  and  make  it  really 
 really  interesting  and  you  know  just 
 kind  of  just  just  kind  of  bring  it  up  to 
 what  they  were  what  they  were  hoping  to 
 live  in  in  the  future  and  then  once  they 
 got  living  here  they  realized  the  real 
 value  the  real  place  they  want  to  live 
 is  outdoors  so  that  that's  where  they 
 started  when  they  called  me  they  said 
 we're  putting  the  pool  in  we  are  we  want 
 the  backyard  to  feel  like  a  resort  so  we 
 have  done  their  Landscaping  in  their 
 backyard  and  we  just  came  back  for  phase 
 two  and  did  some  Landscaping  in  their 
 front  yard  but  I  I  wanted  you  guys  to 
 see  what  you  could  do  with  a  relatively 
 very  small  space  and  how  much  you  can 
 make  make  the  space  your  own  and  enjoy 
 it  just  like  Renee  and  Mick  has  done  and 
 I'm  I'm  so  pleased  with  this  area  I  will 
 go  through  and  do  the  same  thing  that  I 
 normally  do  this  the  plants  and  the 
 trees  the  hardiness  a  little  bit  of 
 information  about  each  one  and  then  of 
 course  you  know  some  of  our  struggles 
 that  we  had  in  this  space  that  might 
 help  you  overcome  maybe  something  that 
 you're  dealing  with  in  your  space  but 
 let's  dive  in  and  get  started  and  and 
 grab  your  glass  of  wine  or  cup  of  coffee 
 and  join  me  and  we'll  uh  walk  and  talk 
 plants  and  trees  Oh  but  before  we  do 
 I've  got  to  show  you  this  cutest  little 
 space  now  this  was  not  my  idea  it  was 
 not  my  thing  but  I  have  enjoyed  this 
 spot  sitting  with  my  clients  Here  and 
 Now  with  we  just  been  sitting  here 
 laughing  and  talking  um  and  then  this  is 
 just  right  off  of  the  driveway  in  their 
 front  yard  it's  right  underneath  these 
 canopies  of  these  Oaks  and  I  think  it's 
 just  such  a  a  cool  little  entrance  to 
 the  back  space  when  you're  sitting  here 
 you  look  through  the  back  gate  and  Renee 
 told  me  she  goes  it's  just  so  magical 
 sitting  right  here  looking  into  that 
 gate  and  seeing  the  palm  trees  and 
 seeing  the  folage  and  seeing  the  color 
 and  it's  just  she  goes  it's  just  want  it 
 leads  you  into  this  back  space  so  it's 
 um  I  just  I  absolutely  love  the  just  how 
 the  con  the  the  two  areas  connect  and 
 that  was  all  my  clients  so  they  really 
 did  the  research  on  what  they  were 
 looking  for  but  the  garden  really  starts 
 here  so  um  right  here  we  have  U  let's  go 
 right  along  this  wall  here  so  right 
 along  this  cool  wall  um  that  they  put  up 
 we  have  some  giant  Apostle  Iris  so  we 
 have  some  very  very  nice  upright  that's 
 more  for  just  that  soft  foliage  it  just 
 so  beautiful  to  highlight  at  night  with 
 um  some  um  landscape  lighting  they  do 
 bloom  a  purple  flower  but  that's  only 
 during  the  early  or  during  spring  and 
 early  summer  but  I  think  even  when 
 they're  not  in  bloom  I  love  that  flat 
 fan  look  of  them  so  they're  a  fantastic 
 alternative  to  Grass  because  they  don't 
 have  all  of  that  Browning  all  of  that 
 issue  now  this  is  the  perfect 
 environment  for  them  they  love  the  acid 
 from  the  treeall  they  love  um  they  love 
 filtered  light  so  if  you  have  a  really 
 Sun  location  you  want  to  steer  clear  of 
 these  guys  because  they  will  burn  but  in 
 this  kind  of  um  Morning  Sun  um  to  early 
 early  summer  filtered  light  or  early 
 afternoon  filtered  light  they'll  do 
 beautifully  here  they're  going  to  do 
 just  absolutely  stunning  so  um  giant 
 aosa  Iris  are  one  of  my  favorites  for 
 that  type  of  environment  and  being  on  a 
 flat  tiny  wall  like  this  and  it  just 
 really  adds  that  that  level  of  impact 
 what  a  nice  feature  for  the  front  door 
 and  then  we  have  some  Neo  milads  just 
 down  below  to  give  us  a  bit  of  pop  of 
 color  and  then  we  start  into  the  walkway 
 of  the  actual  backyard  garden  so  these 
 Rojo  Congos  are  very  young  on  either 
 side  but  they're  really  you  guys  have 
 seen  what  they  do  as  they  mature  and 
 widen  out  you're  going  to  get  that 
 gorgeous  gorgeous  big  giant  paddle  like 
 leaf  and  then  you'll  get  that  as  the 
 leaf  is  coming  up  you'll  get  that 
 beautiful  red  stem  are  they  stunning  and 
 these  will  fill  out  on  both  sides  of  the 
 entrance  like  just  like  a  big  Lily  Pad 
 hello  to  the  Garden  which  I  think  is 
 going  to  be  so  fabulous  so  nice  little 
 clusters  of  Rojo  Congo  and  again  they're 
 in  the  filad  drian  family  and  this  too 
 is  the  perfect  environment  for  them 
 filtered  light  so  they're  getting  plenty 
 of  that  energy  tons  of  acid  from  the 
 leaves  dropping  and  then  um  if  you  got 
 an  oak  tree  or  a  canopy  tree  or  a  maple 
 tree  anything  that's  offering  that  even 
 even  palm  tree  fronds  any  kind  of  filter 
 light  or  canopy  that  protects  them  from 
 that  heavy  Sun 
 they're  going  to  love  you  for  it  and 
 they're  going  to  be  the  big  giant  Leaf 
 gorgeous  Allison  Wonderland  kind  of 
 plants  so  I  think  they're  awesome  by  the 
 front  entrance  then  we  brought  in 
 because  we  needed  to  control  this  area  I 
 wanted  this  area  to  really  narrow  in  as 
 before  you  come  to  the  gate  because  to 
 me  nothing  is  nicer  to  narrow  a  spot  in 
 before  it  opens  up  to  a  really  cool 
 backyard  feature  so  um  we're  going  to 
 allow  these  lustrum  to  really  become  big 
 big  ball  like  along  the  tops  and  then  I 
 mentioned  to  my  clients  you  can  flatten 
 out  that  bottom  to  kind  of  give  them 
 that  um  that  Bonsai  type  of  look  and  be 
 able  to  see  that  cool  grape  trunk  grape 
 vine  trunk  at  the  bottom  which  is  really 
 really  neat  that  they  offer  so  when  they 
 get  about  four  or  five  foot  taller  is 
 going  to  be  when  they're  their  ideal 
 size  and  that's  when  you  want  to  keep 
 them  kind  of  right  at  that  size  so  we 
 have  two  on  one  side  where  we  have  all 
 the  open  room  in  the  world  and  then 
 we've  got  one  here  now  my  clients  have 
 one  window  on  this  this  wall  and  then 
 there's  a  blank  spot  so  there's 
 technically  if  that  was  going  to  stay 
 the  way  it  was  going  to  stay  I  could 
 have  put  one  here  and  one  here  but 
 they're  going  to  they're  planning  on  a 
 future  window  on  the  opposite  side  of 
 this  one  so  that's  why  we  went  with  one 
 Center  Tree  here  so  there's  a  total  of 
 three  lustrum  here  but  I  think  they're 
 going  to  make  a  nice  entrance  feel  and 
 kind  of  come  out  into  the  walkway  just 
 enough  to  give  you  that  kind  of  squeeze 
 effect  before  it  opens  up  then  we  have 
 four  of  these  silver  odor  burmans  now 
 we're  in  a  fairly  dark  spot  this  is 
 Morning  Sun  so  we  are  in  probably  the 
 most  Sun  that  this  spot's  going  to  get 
 and  look  at  these  guys  are  going  to  be 
 at  a  dark  spot  when  there's  a  dark  spot 
 I  love  to  highlight  them  dark  light  dark 
 light  so  we've  got  light  colorations  in 
 the  silver  leaves  then  we  go  to  the  dark 
 loose  lustrum  here  and  then  we  go  back 
 to  another  one  of  these  guys  on  the 
 opposite  side  so  I  like  their  um  they're 
 a  little  their  brightness  in  the  garden 
 here  we've  been  some  ground  cover  of 
 some  Lopes  through  here  just  to  give  us 
 you  know  a  little  a  little  ground  cover 
 at  the  base  very  very  simple  entrance 
 that  I  think  really  just  takes  off  so 
 well  for  an  entrance  to  a  garden  and 
 then  we  have  a  silver  odorata  on  both 
 sides  of  the 
 garden  and  now  we're  going  to  enter  the 
 backyard  space  now  as  I  mentioned  it  is 
 not  very  big  here  so  we  do  have  this  two 
 triple  spindle  Palms  flanking  each  side 
 of  the  entrance  now  these  are  lovely  now 
 but  as  they  mature  and  you  guys  may  have 
 seen  I  might  get  Bryce  to  slide  in  a 
 picture  of  my  spindle  Palms  now  that 
 they're  14  15  foot  tall  they're  absolute 
 stunners  they're  full  grown  and  I  cannot 
 imagine  what  that's  going  to  look  like 
 coming  here  keep  in  mind  those  lustrum 
 are  going  to  get  a  few  foot  taller  in 
 the  front  they're  just  going  to  be  just 
 above  the  fence  line  these  guys  are 
 going  to  be  well  above  the  fence  line  so 
 you're  going  to  see  Triple  Trunks  and 
 then  these  canopies  right 
 here  and  here  are  close  enough  to  where 
 they're  going  to  create  a  total  Arch 
 between  the  two  so  you're  going  to  be 
 walking  underneath  the  Palms  as  this 
 Palm  grouping  gets  gets  a  little  bit 
 more  grown  in  so  yes  do  we  have  about 
 two  or  three  years  before  that  happens 
 absolutely  they  look  lovely  as  little 
 statue  trees  as  of  right  now  but  as  we 
 know  in  Florida  Everything  grows  so 
 that's  exactly  what  they're  going  to  do 
 they're  going  to  create  my  beautiful 
 Palm  Arch  as  we  come  in  and  I  know  I'll 
 be  back  to  see  Renee  and  Mick  as  that 
 happens  because  they're  so  fabulous  I 
 enjoy  visiting  with  them  so  I'm  sure 
 we'll  have  another  phase  and  phase  and 
 phase  by  that  point  so  let's  go  ahead 
 and  move  on  so  right  here  I  have  a  big 
 clustering  of 
 sesia  I  love  this  variation  and  color 
 look  when  the  we're  right  on  the  edge  of 
 the  the  walkway  look  at  this  variation 
 look  how  bright  this  gets  and  then  as 
 you  get  into  the  darker  tones  look  at 
 how  that  softens  you  see  a  little  bit  of 
 that  veining  of  the  yellow  but  not  the 
 whole  Leaf  so  I  love  that  this  plant  is 
 so  versatile  it  can  do  both  in  in  you 
 know  two  different  environments  two 
 different  looks  I  love 
 it  we've  dashed  in  some  Burl  marks  on 
 the  side 
 here  yep  these  guys  right  here  this 
 beautiful  shiny  leaf  they're  just  going 
 to  give  us  a  nice  little  pop  of  green 
 around  the  base  of  the  tree  and  then 
 right  here  we  have  a  blue  flame  of  G  you 
 guys  probably  can  guess  why  that's 
 called  a  blue  flame  because  it  has  a 
 silver  tone  to  it  and  the  leaves  have 
 like  a  flame  like  apparance  which  I 
 think  is  kind  of 
 cool  and  foxtail  ferns  you  know  we  can't 
 go  wrong  with  foxtail 
 ferns  so  and  the  same  it's  kind  of  a 
 rinse  and  repeat  on  this  side  blue  flame 
 Foxdale  firm  Burl  marks  then  we  start 
 the  garden  here  with  something  different 
 this  is  a  pagot  and  look  at  the  blooms 
 on  this  guy  now  these  were  three  gallon 
 when  I  planted  them  it's  maybe  been 
 maybe  two  months  since  I've  been  here  um 
 so  it's  it's  this  is  a  very  very  young 
 landscape  but  it's  already  off  to  a 
 fabulous  start  so  if  you  haven't  noticed 
 yet  the  goal  for  Renee  and  Mick  was  to 
 have  complete  coverage  of  this  fence 
 they  were  they  were  thinking  about 
 changing  it  and  I'm  like  we'll  just  hold 
 off  because  some  of  these  layers  that 
 are  all  coming  in  you're  really  going  to 
 see  very  little  of  this  fence  once  it's 
 all  grown  in  and  that  was  the  goal  so 
 that  way  they  have  it  it's  actually 
 sound  now  we're  just  going  to  cover  it 
 with  some  beauty  so  let's  walk  inside  it 
 might  be  a  little  easier  for  you  guys  to 
 kind  of  get  a  glimpse  of  the  whole 
 project  in  its  and  you  know  in  its 
 beauty  because  kind  of  it's  going  to  be 
 kind  of  tight  quarters  walking  around 
 it's  one  of  those  and  I  think  I  have 
 some  clips  of  it  when  it  was  newly  done 
 so  you  guys  might  get  a  glimpse  of  that 
 without  the  screen  in  place  which  will 
 help  as  well  so  I  want  you  guys  to 
 really  get  a  good  feel  for  the 
 area  now  as  I  mentioned  Renee  and  Mick 
 have  pretty  much  um 
 started  out  here  so  it  is  wonderful  when 
 I  came  back  here  it  feels  like  a  retreat 
 I  can  pretty  much  hang  out  here  this  is 
 the  reason  why  we're  doing  this  YouTube 
 video  here  today  on  a  Saturday  me  and 
 Bryce  because  honestly  I  love  my  clients 
 and  I  love  their  place  this  is  just  the 
 coolest  place  to  hang  out  is  this 
 furniture  not  so  fun  so  um  they  knew 
 what  they  were  about  they  knew  what  they 
 wanted  to  see  they  and  they  created  it 
 they  redid  the  pool  here  it's  a  brand 
 new  pool  construction  they  um  I  love  the 
 papers  that  they  chose  and  the  furniture 
 they  chose  they  just  really  knew  how  to 
 make  a  space  a  resort  garden  and  I  think 
 that  they  really  have  um  have  achieved 
 it  and  then  they  let  me  come  in  and  do 
 all  the  fluff  and  all  the  softening  all 
 the  way  around  it  now  we  had  power  lines 
 to  contend  with  here  we  had  some  big 
 canopy  trees  to  work  with  and  it  was 
 really  really  tough  but  when  you  looked 
 out  in  their  backyard  right  off  the  bat 
 the  first  thing  that  you  saw  was  that 
 big  roof  line  back  there  um  and 
 especially  from  inside  of  the  house  it's 
 very  very  it  was  very  very  noticeable 
 and  until  these  pygm  at  Palms  reach 
 their  12T  height  it's  absolutely  going 
 to  um  it's  it's  going  to  continue  being 
 that  way  but  we  put  them  in  nice  close 
 enough  together  where  they're  going  to 
 create  a  hammock  so  I  don't  know  how 
 well  you  can  see  it  through  the  screen 
 I'm  sorry  guys  I  know  that  the  screen 
 really  dims  it  from  inside  but  um  so 
 we've  got  three  triple  py8  Palms  here 
 and  imagine  those  guys  at  12T  tall 
 they'll  be  above  the  fence  six  foot 
 above  the  fence  which  is  going  to  be  the 
 perfect  height  to  camouflage  that  roof 
 line  there  once  those  grow  together  they 
 will  all  connect  and  they  will  all  be 
 12T  tall  at  that  point  the  plaria  tree 
 just  to  the  middle  of  each  of  that  um 
 grouping  is  going  to  also  widen  out  and 
 they're  going  to  let  that  get  15  or  16 
 foot  tall  and  that's  going  to  give  them 
 such  beautiful  pink  blooms  you  might  be 
 able  to  see  it  a  little  better  on  that 
 side 
 there  point  at  it  yes  asked  if  I  would 
 go  point  at  it  make  that  a  little  easier 
 so  this  tree  right  here  with  the  big 
 paddle  leaves  that's  a  plary  or  frangie 
 pangy  tree  depends  on  what  what  your 
 favorite  common  name  is  for  it  but  we're 
 going  to  let  that  get  big  the  reason  why 
 we  chose  that  tree  for  that  area  because 
 that  tree  you  can  clip  any  stem  you  want 
 on  it  um  and  you  don't  have  to  worry 
 about  harming  the  tree  and  as  you  can 
 see  right  above  us  is  the  double  power 
 line  so  we  knew  we  were  going  to  be 
 limited 
 with  allowing  a  tree  to  get  any  size  up 
 there  now  that  power  line  Looks  it  looks 
 like  it's  close  but  it's  actually  15t  in 
 the  air  which  will  allow  that  tree  to 
 get  about  14  15  foot  and  wrap  around  the 
 power  line  to  help  soften  that  look 
 without  getting  in  the  power  line  so 
 they  can  just  trim  whatever  stem  they 
 need  to  trim  off  of  it  in  case  one 
 touches  or  gets  close  to  it  and  then 
 these  pyate  Palms  won't  reach  that 
 height  but  they  will  do  what  they're 
 intended  to  do  which  is  soften  that  roof 
 line  there  so  that's  how  we're  going  to 
 get  rid  of  that  there  we  have  a  triple 
 Spindle  Palm  right  in  the  middle  here 
 that's  going  to  do  that  for  um  for 
 future  growth  as  well  that's  going  to 
 give  us  a  nice  m  a  nice  Middle  Point  so 
 we're  going  to  go  outside  you  guys  and 
 walk  it  off  that  way  so  you  can  get  a 
 good  close  personal  look  of  what  this 
 looks 
 like  okay  so  we  are  back  outside 
 hopefully  this  will  help  give  you  a 
 clearer  picture  I  just  wanted  you  to  see 
 the  whole  picture  and  the  whole  frame  so 
 um  so  I  hope  that  was  helpful  right  here 
 we  have  just  below  the  pagodas  we  have 
 the  curly  Java  whites  these  are  a  dwarf 
 variety  of  the  Java  whites  they  have  a 
 fringed  white  and  green  leaf  really 
 really  cool  pretty  now  um  but  definitely 
 not  up  to  par  for  what  they're  going  to 
 be  when  they  they  mature  out  so  these 
 are  going  to  be  a  big  chunky  group  of 
 white  and  white  and  green  right 
 underneath  this  big  green  shiny  leaf  and 
 this  big  orange  flowers  so  they'll 
 compliment  each  other  really  well  as 
 they  mature  and  you  guys  we  didn't  need 
 much  and  in  a  lot  of  gardens  you  don't 
 we've  got  three  of  these  guys  wrapping 
 one  of  these  guys  that  means  this  whole 
 little  planting  right  here  is  made  up  of 
 four  three  gallon  plants  that  really  are 
 going  to  be  absolutely  stunning  in  six 
 months  to  a  year  so  it's  going  to  really 
 come  together  really 
 well  then  we've  got  some  fox  tail  ferns 
 right  at  the  front  because  we're  going 
 to  start  with  some  Polish  here  of  some 
 fuzzy  little  Fern  leaf  and  you  know  just 
 kind  of  make  it  a  little  crazy  and  then 
 the  Chinese  fan  pom  so  this  Chinese  fan 
 pom  my  goal  is  to  let  to  completely  fill 
 this  corner  over  time  and  well  into  the 
 future  it  will  get  some  size  to  it  but 
 so  slow  it  grows  so  slow  that  I  think 
 it's  going  to  be  an  ideal  place  for  it 
 for  a  very  long  time  let  it  just  kind  of 
 take  over  this  spot  here  then  we  have  a 
 Christmas  Palm  right  here  in  the  middle 
 this  is  a  triple  Christmas  Palm  when 
 you're  looking  from  inside  the  pool 
 screen  this  is  kind  of  middle  side  of 
 the  fence  so  I  kind  of  wanted  something 
 that  was  really  going  to  open  up  and 
 give  us  a  kind  of  a  cool  feature  kind  of 
 at  the  end  of  the  pool  so  this  is  the 
 center  piece  for  that  for  this 
 particular  bed  so  it  is  a  triple 
 Christmas  Palm  the  backing  along  the 
 side  is  the  Rojo  red  copper  leaves  this 
 area  gets  a  little  bit  of  more  Sun  than 
 the  rest  of  the  garden  so  this  little 
 this  copper  leaf  grouping  should  really 
 do  well  together  especially  in  the 
 summer  months  down  below  is  the  blaze 
 copper  leaf  now  this  is  kind  of  what 
 these  plants  look  like  when  they're 
 newly  planted  so  they're  haven't 
 thickened  up  yet  they  haven't  been  Lush 
 like  the  copper  like  the  blaze  copper 
 leaf  that  you  guys  maybe  are  used  to 
 seeing  in  some  of  my  videos  that  happens 
 about  6  months  in  so  if  you  have  some 
 copper  leavs  and  they're  not  doing 
 exactly  what  you're  seeing  in  the  videos 
 give  them  some  time  because  they  really 
 need  to  chunk  out  you  need  to  trim  them 
 a  few  times  for  them  to  really  get  Stout 
 at  the  bottom  so  that  way  they  just 
 don't  shoot  up  and  become  thin  plants 
 they  really  need  a  cut  back  a  couple 
 times  before  they  really  come  into  their 
 own  so  um  that's  what  these  are  these 
 are  going  through  they've  already  been 
 nipped  a  little  bit  at  the  top  to 
 thicken  out  and  you  can  kind  of  see  that 
 that's  happened  on  some  of  that  new 
 growth  and  you  can  see  the  new  growth 
 coming  through  already 
 and  that  was  only  a  couple  weeks  ago  I 
 think  that  they've  been  trimmed 
 so  pretty 
 quickly  now  we've  had  some  casualties 
 here  because  the  screen  guys  were  here 
 after  the  planting  and  ladders  and  men 
 men  and  ladders  oh  my  goodness  so  um  you 
 know  there's  been  some  some  stepping  on 
 some  of  the  plant  but  they're  rebounding 
 golden  Dees  or  gold  Mounds  whatever  you 
 choose  to  call  them  these  guys  are  tough 
 they're  durable  so  um  that  little  bit  of 
 trauma  to  them  they're  going  to  pop  back 
 and  do  just  fine  but  we  have  a  nice  soft 
 bit  of  brightness  right  here  in  the 
 front  so  golden  Dees  Blaze  copper  leaf 
 Roo  um  red  copper  leaf  to  the 
 back  and  then  we  finished  it  off  with  a 
 Chinese  fan  palm  right 
 here  and  then  again  fox  tail  ferns  at 
 the  bottom  and  then  this  other  pagot  at 
 the  Final  Touch  is  and  it's  blooming 
 beautifully  and  then  it's  the  same  plant 
 grouping  that  you  saw  in  the  front  with 
 the  dwarf  copper  leaves  just  down 
 below  okay  now  I  was  really  hoping  we'd 
 have  a  bloomer  or  two  for  you  guys  but  a 
 couple  months  in  they've  not  had  a 
 chance  to  really  get  settled  this  is  a 
 nice  swath  a  nice  big  rounded  grouping 
 of  Brazilian  Red  cloaks  even  at  young 
 plants  look  at  the  size  of  this  Leaf  you 
 guys  I  mean  just  this  is  just  amazing 
 what  what  screams  more  tropical  than 
 this  shiny  big  giant  Leaf  Brazilian  Red 
 clothes  you  can  find  them  get  them  they 
 will  treat  you  well  and  then  every  time 
 you  trim  them  you  get  new  plants  or  you 
 can  give  your  plants  away  so  they're 
 great  to  propagate  but  we  had  this  big 
 telephone  pole  right  here  to  work  with 
 and  now  you  don't  see  it  nearly  as  much 
 as  you  did  see  um  when  it  was  when  we 
 were  newly  doing  this  project  but  you 
 have  the  telephone  pole  and  then  this 
 big  chiffer  tree  that  that  the  clients 
 wanted  to  keep  so  I  was  trying  to  cover 
 the  base  of  this  whole  corner  and  in  6 
 months  to  a  year 
 this  will  all  be  6  to  7  foot  so  all  of 
 this  wrap  around  of  this  Blaze  Copp  or 
 Brazilian  Red  Cloak  um  planting  will  be 
 6  foot  tall  with  prominent  big  red 
 blooms  on  them  so  um  they're  very  very 
 similar  in  Blooming  power  as  what  the 
 pagodas  offer  but  they're  going  to  give 
 you  that  cherry  red  Bloom  which  is  just 
 stunning  or  cherry  pink  reddish  Bloom 
 it's  amazing  how  it  it  changes  as  it 
 matures  but  it's 
 gorgeous  a  little  clustering  of  elephant 
 ears  you  guys  know  my  Allison  Wonderland 
 story  I  love  big  paddled  Leaf  um  dwarf 
 alas  so  we  have  a  little  little  batch  of 
 those  at  the  very  beginning  to  kind  of 
 give  us  a  start  to  the  back  side  of  the 
 garden  this  are  those  pygme  eight  Palms 
 that  you  guys  saw  in  the  very  in  the 
 inside  from  inside  so  there's  three  and 
 three  so  we  have  a  grouping  of  three 
 right  here  this  will  connect  to  its 
 neighboring  palm  and  that  Palm  will 
 connect  to  that  Palm  so  all  three  Palms 
 will  fully  connect 
 together  allowing  pretty  much  a  circle  a 
 12T  circle  of  palm  trees  from  1  2  3  now 
 you  have  a  canopy  of  coverage  you'll  not 
 see  this  well  you'll  see  a  little  bit  of 
 the  fence  if  the  plantings  you  know 
 aren't  quite  there  yet  so  you'll  have  a 
 nice  stair  step  stair  step  effect  to 
 cover  the  fence  but  this  will  be  above 
 the  fence  line  and  helping  you  really 
 with  those  with  those  roof  lines  so  this 
 is  the  frangie  pangy  tree  and  this  is 
 what  I  was  talking  about  directly  above 
 me  is  the  power  lines  and  the  frangie 
 pangy  tree  the  goal  of  this  guy  is  to 
 give  us  another  intermediate  tree  in  the 
 backyard  but  one  that  we  can  control  and 
 be  off  of  the  power  lines  for  good  so  um 
 that's  where  we  are  this  is  a 
 combination  croin  so  up  here  we  have  a 
 mango  croin  at  the  top  and  look  we  have 
 a  magnificent  mixed  in  I  love  the 
 combination  croin  because  I'm  able  to 
 really  get  you  know  a  different  growth 
 rate  from  this  grooving  I  put  the 
 Magnificent  croin  look  to  the  front  and 
 then  the  mango  croin  which  is  more 
 vertical  more  upright  that  is  a 
 fantastic  um  croin  croin  to  have  as  a 
 backdrop  and  this  is  a  big  giant  leaf 
 and  really  kind  of  skirts  out  at  the 
 bottom  so  they're  just 
 beautiful  so  let's  continue  to  move  on  I 
 feel  like  I'm  walking  through  the 
 jungle  so  as  a  brightness  we  have  again 
 the  Gold  Dust  croin  at  the  bottom  the 
 fox  tail  ferns  just  down  below  and 
 another  pop  of  the  mango  cro  look  at 
 that  yellow  against  the  fence  isn't  that 
 just 
 gorgeous  we've  got  a  little  touch  of 
 blue  my  Minds  here  just  in  a  couple  hot 
 spots  of  the  sunny  areas  but  we're  now 
 getting  into  more  of  the  shade  Zone  this 
 area  only  gets  3  hours  of  Sun  so  I 
 didn't  put  many  in  here  I  did  end  up 
 putting  more  penas  because  they  can 
 bloom  with  less  um  sun  power  and  so 
 they're  um  they're  doing  really  really 
 well  and  giv  us  a  big  pop  of  pink  right 
 here  so  we  have  a  total  of  three  of 
 these  triple  spindle  Palms  in  the  garden 
 and  this  is  just  going  to  be  a  gorgeous 
 look  as  it  matures  up  I  had  to  pull  it 
 forward  so  it's  away  from  the  power  line 
 but  it  is  going  to  really  fill  in  this 
 spot  in  between  the  clusters  of  the  trio 
 of  uh  Pym  8  Palms  so  this  is  going  to  be 
 a  nice  look  and  I  don't  know  if  I 
 mentioned  the  two  FAL  seavees  flanking 
 the  centerpiece  tree  you  guys  know  how 
 much  I  love  um  a  vertical  impact 
 wherever  I  have  a  centerpiece  I  want  to 
 flank  it  and  give  it  some  support  on 
 each  side  and  have  a  FAL  Agave  so  this 
 is  a  FAL  sagave  um  that  is  really  suited 
 for  that  kind  of  um  that  kind  of  look 
 we're  back  to  the  back  of  this  with 
 anti-u  so  as  this  tree  grows  the  anti-u 
 will  fill  in  the  backdrop  of  this  tree 
 here  and  then  to  give  us  another  bit  of 
 brightness  we've  got  the  songs  of  India 
 just  below  them  and  they  give  you  that 
 green  and  um  whitish  yellowish  Leaf  so  a 
 nice  bit  of  variegation  and  you  notice  I 
 tried  to  find  some  things  in  this  Garden 
 that  are  going  to  be  variegated  leaves 
 because  we  don't  have  a  lot  of  sun  to 
 work  with  and  then  we  have  this  real 
 dense  screen  because  of  the  bugs  we  have 
 this  dense  screen  for  no  CMS  to  work 
 with  so  I  know  it  it  kind  of  does  a  kind 
 of  does  a  job  of  blocking  what's  back 
 here  so  you  have  to  really  so  that's  one 
 one  to  bring  in  some  brightness  now  this 
 will  become  more  and  more  Vivid  as  the 
 plants  and  trees  grow  into  each  other 
 but  um  right  now  again  we're  still  young 
 so  uh  we  we  brought  in  the  the  brightest 
 lightest  colors  that  we  could  to  make 
 that 
 happen  all 
 right  so  now  we  are  at  the  very  last 
 pygmy  here  and  we  are  finishing  up  the 
 edge  of  the  garden  we've  got  some 
 monstera  now  I've  gotten  some  questions 
 um  from  folks  that  said  you  know  I 
 thought  monstera  is  like  full  full  shade 
 um  I  I  didn't  think  they  liked  any  sun 
 this  Monera  gets  about  4  hours  of  Sun  it 
 gets  all  morning  sun  up  until  you  know 
 early  part  of  the  midday  um  so  it  is 
 really  um  I  think  we're  about  2:00  right 
 now  and  you  can  see  how  much  sun  we  this 
 is  still  getting  and  they  do  just  fine 
 in  that  environment  afternoon  sun  is 
 where  they  really  shrink  back  so  you 
 kind  of  want  to  kind  of  keep  keep  them 
 protected  from  the  afternoon  sun  but 
 that  Morning  Sun  they  are  a  okay  will 
 you  have  a  couple  tipped  burn  leaves  if 
 um  yes  that  that  could  happen  but 
 overall  they'll  kind  of  get  used  to  it 
 and  bounce  back  and  um  you  just  want  to 
 make  sure  that  you  keep  your  watering 
 cycle  on  the  evening  hours  or  very  very 
 early  morning  hours  so  the  more  um  those 
 plants  that  like  The  Congos  and 
 farfugium  and  these  guys  they  don't  like 
 any  kind  of  full  sun  but  they  will  take 
 filtered  light  really  really  well  and  if 
 you  water  them  they'll  take  it  even 
 better  they'll  take  a  little  bit  more  of 
 that  Sun  so  this  planning  cycle  is  set 
 to  four  days  per  week  watering  um  for 
 the  first  um  probably  six  months  here 
 because  it's  very  very  sandy  soil  so 
 that  water  really  kind  of  filters 
 through  pretty  easily  but  overall 
 they're  doing  fantastic  little  bit  of 
 tinged  burn  on  the  edge  of  the  leaves 
 but  that's  to  be  expected  until  they 
 really  get  established  we've  got  a 
 grouping  of  sesia  at  the  bottom  because 
 at  some  point  those  guys  are  going  to 
 get  nice  and  tall  and  be  six  foot  tall 
 and  you'll  see  the  little  bit  of  stems 
 on  those  at  the  bottom  so  these  sesia 
 will  do  a  great  job  of  giving  us  a 
 blockage  from  seeing  those  stems  and 
 then  just  seeing  those  big  giant 
 monstera  leaves  popping  out  around  the 
 sesia  and  over  top  to  really  give  you 
 that  jungle  effect  um  then  back  here  we 
 have  a  nice  little  pop  of  um  Rojo 
 Louisiana  red  Congos  um  they  have  a  red 
 and  pinkish  coloring  to  the  leaves  and 
 they're  just  going  to  do  a  nice  job  of 
 softening  this  whole  back 
 space  sorry  we  got  caught  it's  like  a 
 little  squirrel  baby  squirrel  beeping  at 
 us  so  anyway  sorry  squirrel  um  and  then 
 we  finished  it  off  here  with  some  Blaze 
 CPP  relaf  and  that  brings  access  to  the 
 end  of  the  backyard  bed  so  as  you  look 
 at  this  space  here  this  space  is  going 
 to  be  phase  two  so  this  is  pretty  much 
 the  grass  is  in  we're  going  to  pretty 
 much  carry  the  garden  back  over  and  come 
 up  underneath  these  um  existing  a  palms 
 and  do  a  very  similar  design  of  some  of 
 that  same  color  but  you  know  as  they  say 
 a  garden  is  never  is  never  finished  so 
 I'm  sure  I'll  see  Mick  and  Renee  again 
 very  soon  to  tackle  this  next  set  and 
 you  know  I  did  want  to  mention  um  we 
 have  some  mentions  in  the  front  there's 
 some  really  attractive  uh  small 
 plantings  that  we  brought  in  for  the 
 front  yard  let's  pop  over  there  if  you 
 guys  don't  mind  and  and  walk  with  me  and 
 that  way  you  guys  can  see  a  few  more 
 plants  in  this  video  all  right  so  I 
 couldn't  let  you  guys  just  go  just  yet 
 um  so  we  did  do  the  front  yard  we  just 
 came  in  a  couple  weeks  ago  and  touched 
 up  their  front  yard  for  them  and  I  will 
 get  Bryce  to  slide  in  uh  before  picture 
 of  what  it  looked  like  when  we  first  got 
 here  what  it  looked  like  when  the 
 homeowners  first  got  here  um  when  they 
 purchased  this  house  and  why  they  were 
 kind  of  eager  to  kind  of  get  it  to  a 
 blank  slate  and  then  just  just  do  a 
 softness  I  was  letting  them  know  that 
 you  know  the  backyard  was  one  thing  to 
 create  that  Retreat  like  feel  really 
 bring  in  some  heavy  layers  and  and  Jazz 
 it  up  but  the  front  yard  itself  the 
 front  yard  needed  something  more  subtle 
 because  the  house  roof  line  is  somewhat 
 lower  like  your  typical  70s  model  and  so 
 you  can't  you  don't  want  to  overdo  that 
 and  then  we  had  the  oak  trees  to  work 
 with  already  that  really  gave  the  front 
 yard  some  substance  so  we're  really 
 working  with  those  that  type  of  um  that 
 type  of  vibe  for  the  front  yard  I  want 
 to  stay  authentic  to  the  to  the  look  of 
 the  house  so  that's  exactly  what  we  did 
 so  this  front  bed  was  originally  full  of 
 big  giant  palm  trees  and  some  overgrown 
 coverage  and  instead  we  brought  in  three 
 fals  aavees  these  guys  are  going  to  get 
 about  four  they're  going  to  get  about  5 
 foot  tall  but  they're  not  intrusive  when 
 they're  that  big  they're  just  kind  of  a 
 cool  sculpture  in  the  garden  so  we're 
 going  to  have  three  of  these  guys  in 
 this  giant  Island  to  take  up  that  kind 
 of  just  to  give  it  that  kind  of  Gravitas 
 of  that  look  without  overtaking  the 
 space  and  then  we  did  a  small  pretty 
 small  island  bed  around  it  we  have  some 
 blue  my  Minds  to  the  back  just  touching 
 around  the  rear  of  the  fal  sagave  there 
 we  have  some  small  ruffled  um  copper 
 leaf  these  are  the  Rosa  ruffled  copper 
 leaves  I  love  them  they  just  offer  a  bit 
 of  that  color  and  I  swear  they  remind  me 
 of  fall  with  all  of  that  kind  of 
 variation  and  deep  tones  of  of  the  maths 
 and  the  pinks  and  the  Reds  and  they're 
 just  a  kind  of  a  cool  look  and  then 
 three  and  only  three  of  the  dwarf  mini 
 um  uh  job  white  copper  leaves  these  guys 
 have  a  small  Leaf  they're  more  compact 
 just  like  the  roses  and  they're  going  to 
 do  a  good  job  of  kind  of  giving  us  that 
 compact  variegation  so  again  you  know 
 it's  dark  light  dark  light  you  know 
 that's  the  that's  my  vibe  that's  that's 
 my  my  look  overall  because  I  love  the 
 way  that  kind  of  coloration  comes  in 
 together  now  um  we  will  talk  about  some 
 landscape  lighting  I  think  we're  going 
 to  do  that  in  the  question  and  answer 
 section  of  this  video  um  so  we'll  we'll 
 get  to  that  in  a  second  because  I  want 
 to  share  that  with  you  remind  me  of  that 
 Bryce  um  we're  going  to  skip  right  to 
 the  front  yard  little  garden  section 
 here  and  then  you  guys  got  to  see  the 
 left  side  when  we  first  when  we  first 
 started  this  video  but  right  over  here 
 we  have  a  pygm  eight  Palm  right  here  on 
 the  corner  we've  backed  that  with  Jaba 
 white  copper  leaves  here  now  my  clients 
 loved  the  Jaba  white  copper  leaves  just 
 because  the  CL  their  neighbor  right 
 across  the  street  and  if  you  just  kind 
 of  turn  right  around  right  behind  that 
 truck  there  Bryce  you'll  see  that  big 
 cluster  of  java  white  copper  leaves  that 
 just  kind  of  scream  out  and  say  hello 
 with  their  big  giant  yellow  and  green 
 leaves  they  loved  that  look  so  much  that 
 they  were  like  you  know  is  there  a  spot 
 somewhere  I  can  put  that  in  the  garden 
 and  I'm  like  you're  totally  speaking  my 
 language  here  I  mean  Java  white  copper 
 Leafs  I  like  carry  them  around  in  my 
 truck  with  me  so  yeah  so  yes  so  I 
 Incorporated  them  here  we  have  a  nice 
 cluster  letting  this  whole  corner  of  the 
 back  or  the  front  corner  of  the  house 
 really  kind  of  flare  out  with  those  job 
 of  white  copper  leaves  so  they're  going 
 to  do  a  nice  job  there  and  then 
 underneath  the  pyate  Palm  we  are  going 
 to  have  a  nice  grouping  of  fox  tail 
 ferns  so  that's  that  look 
 there  it  um  was  a  surprise  to  all  of  us 
 but  the  clients  needed  a  new  well  before 
 we  got  here  in  the  Landscaping  so  I 
 brought  in  some  of  these  farfugium  um 
 giant  leopard  ear  to  kind  of  cover  up 
 that  well  so  they're  going  to  grow  in 
 and  really  cover  up  the  base  of  that 
 well  really  nicely  and  the  clients  not 
 only  needed  one  well  but  they  needed  too 
 so  we  had  to  do  the  same  thing  over  here 
 and  so  the  bed  got  changed  to  be  a 
 little  bit  more  elaborate  not  much  but 
 just  a  little  bit  broader  in  both 
 Corners  to  allow  for  those  far  food  gums 
 to  cover  up  that  well  but  that's 
 landscaping  for  you  it  evolves  and  you 
 know  you  just  roll  with  it  so  um  so 
 that's  going  to  be  a  nice  look  as  it 
 grows  in  this  this  spot  right  between 
 the  two  windows  is  a  bright  color  on  the 
 wall  so  we  are  going  to  let  these  anti-l 
 which  I  love  you  guys  know  I  love 
 quarter  lines  I  just  love  that  dark  dark 
 dark  contrast  in  color  I've  put  in  a 
 nice  jam-packed  grouping  of  three  big 
 ones  and  two  little  ones  in  here  to 
 really  give  us  a  nice  big  cluster  of 
 varied  Heights  on  these  on  these  guys 
 now  you  might  be  wondering  if  you  guys 
 are  not  familiar  with  my  other  videos  on 
 how  to  maintain  these  guys  how  are  you 
 possibly  going  to  keep  them  this  small 
 they're  going  to  get  too  tall  for  this 
 spot  and  you  were  mistaken  there  so  let 
 me  explain  that  in  this  video  so  this 
 once  a  year  my  client's  going  to  do 
 trimming  on  one  of  these  head  heads  um 
 per  plant  so  once  a  year  they're  going 
 to  cut  off  the  tallest  head  that  it's  in 
 the  grouping  and  then  they're  going  to 
 take  that  head  and  now  in  most  cases  you 
 can  take  that  head  and  put  it  right  into 
 this  grouping  and  thicken  up  this  little 
 spot  but  because  this  is  already  pretty 
 thick  spot  they  can  take  that  head  that 
 they  cut  off  and  propagate  it  put  it 
 right  in  the  ground  somewhere  else  give 
 it  a  little  extra  water  for  the  first 
 couple  months  and  then  it  will  reroot 
 into  that  spot  and  create  a  whole 
 another  plant  for  you  so  and  then 
 wherever  you  cut  that  plant  you  want  to 
 make  sure  you  cut  it  nice  nice  and  low 
 it  will  now  give  you  two  heads  and  that 
 wherever  that  cutting  is  so  you're  going 
 to  have  a  nice  chunky  bottom  always  on 
 these  plants  and  you  can  always  maintain 
 the  height  that  way  so  you  take  the 
 tallest  one  off  wherever  you  took  it  off 
 that's  now  where  your  new  plant  the  head 
 of  your  new  plant's  going  to  go  so  you 
 can  really  really  play  with  these  and 
 put  them  in  just  about  any  spot  by 
 keeping  them  maintained  and  they  grow  so 
 slow  you  can  keep  them  maintain  fairly 
 easy  so  this  is  always  going  to  be  a 
 perfect  environment  5  years  from  now 
 this  will  be  a  fantastic  environment  for 
 these  plants  as  well  oh  that's  right 
 Bryce  is  right  he  always  reminds  me  of 
 the  I  have  a  video  of  that  so  I'll  be 
 sure  to  either  link  the  video  down  below 
 or  in  the  description  or  or  um  somewhere 
 where  you  guys  can  find  that  video  of 
 how  to  maintain  quarter  lines  I  think 
 the  video  is  called  um  something  about 
 getting  free  plants  so  it'll  be  right 
 next  it'll  be  yeah  forget  you  don't  have 
 to  worry  about  my  memory  Bryce  will  be 
 sure  to  put  it  right  next  to  me 
 somewhere  so  thank  goodness  for  that 
 down  below  because  these  guys  are  nice 
 and  dark  we  brought  in  some  golden  Dews 
 or  gold  Mounds  right  at  the  base  so 
 they're  going  to  do  a  nice  job  of  giving 
 us  a  little  pop  of  brightness  amongst 
 these  dark  plants  here  so  these  here 
 right  here  are  um  xanadoo  they're 
 five-fingered  xanadoo  they're  very  young 
 very  small  but  they're  going  to  kind  of 
 float  with  a  nice  little  filad  drian 
 leaf  right  at  the  middle  here  and 
 they're  going  to  get  about  three  foot  so 
 you're  going  to  have  three  foot  and  then 
 two  foot  and  then  five  foot  on  the 
 corner  you  guys  know  how  I  like  those 
 layers  so  Bam  Bam  Bam  it's  going  to  give 
 you  nice  look  with  a  big  pop  of  fun  in 
 the  middle  so  and  then  we've  got  of 
 course  our  anchor  trees  of  our  pygm  date 
 palm  on  the  corner  and  their  existing 
 poto  carpus  Tree  on  the  other  side  so 
 the  rest  of  the  plant  grouping  is 
 exactly  as  the  other  half  so  we  are  kind 
 of  um  all  in  for  the  plant  groupings 
 that  you  see  here  okay  you  guys  so  the 
 question  for  today  is  actually  right  off 
 of  here  off  this  job  I  knew  I  was 
 forgetting  something  I  asked  you  to 
 remember  remind  me  about  the  lighting  I 
 wanted  to  discuss  the  lighting  because 
 it  is  a  question  I  get  very  often  in  the 
 comments  and  you  and  Bryce  forgot  to 
 remind  me  so  we  are  back  with  that 
 question  on  this  the  end  of  this  today's 
 video  as  I  mentioned  I'm  getting  a  few 
 questions  about  landscape  lighting  and 
 what  kind  of  lighting  that  I  prefer  to 
 use  now  we  do  landscape  lighting 
 installation  as  part  of  one  of  the 
 services  that  we  offer  and  we  use  the 
 dower  product  we  love  our  product  I'll 
 be  sure  to  put  that  on  the  screen  it's 
 just  a  fantastic  bronze  light  fixture 
 I'll  show  you  here  as  an  example  so  that 
 way  you  guys  can  see  it  um  and  we  we 
 love  that  product  they  also  have  a 
 retail  version  so  if  it's  something  that 
 you  guys  want  to  do  as  a  homeowner  or  do 
 it  yourself  or  I'll  be  sure  to  list  that 
 down  below  um  and  I  have  no  affiliation 
 with  them  that  company  but  I  know  that 
 their  main  product  that  we  use  on  the 
 commercial  side  is  wonderful  so  I 
 imagine  their  their  um  retail  version  is 
 just  as  good  if  you  guys  are  good  di 
 wires  and  handy  and  able  to  redirections 
 pretty  well  I  mean  not  super  well 
 because  I'm  not  super  good  at  that  but 
 if  you  are  then  um  let  me  know  because  I 
 might  be  able  to  um  work  with  you  on 
 some  on  the  commercial  side  as  well  so 
 um  by  sending  you  that  product  but  yeah 
 I  would  want  to  go  over  some  details 
 with  you  on  that  to  make  sure  that 
 that's  something  that  that  you  guys  are 
 up  for  but  regardless  I  will  show  you 
 that  product  that  we  work  with  and 
 comments  yeah  definitely  Bryce  said 
 leave  it  in  the  comments  if  you're 
 interested  and  then  I'll  DM  you  or  reach 
 out  to  you  in  that  kind  of  way  but  um  I 
 have  not  had  a  lot  of  luck  with  the  Home 
 Depot  brand  we  used  to  use  them  Malibu 
 Malibu  brand  that's  what  I  started  with 
 with  my  own  um  with  my  own  um  landscape 
 lighting  in  my  home  and  I  just 
 constantly  had  trouble  with  it  um  so 
 that's  the  reason  why  I  I  don't  have 
 that's  what  why  I  went  in  search  for 
 another  company  to  purchase  lighting 
 from  so  I  wish  I  had  some  better 
 information  but  what  I  do  want  to  share 
 with  you  guys  is  there's  def  different 
 types  of  lights  that  you  can  use  like 
 spotlights  versus  path  lights  so  that  I 
 can  help  you  with  and  so  that's  kind  of 
 what  this  video  is  about  so  in  this 
 particular  situ  ation  we  have  different 
 types  of  Lights  this  is  what  is  called  a 
 wall  light  so  most  people  that  this  is  a 
 full  bronze  light  it  can  handle  the  salt 
 conditions  is  a  nice  nice  standard  um 
 commercial  product  that  is  just  really 
 really  good  the  bulb  itself  has  a  5-year 
 warranty  5year  replacement  warranty  so 
 if  it  goes  out  within  5  years  they 
 replace  it  for  free  which  I  absolutely 
 love  um  but  this  is  a  wall  light  now  you 
 can  get  a  wall  light  in  any  any  of  your 
 lighting  packages  and  most  people  want 
 to  put  that  directly  on  a  wall  but  I 
 love  it  on  things  like  the  Agave  because 
 what  happens  when  you  put  a  spotlight 
 right  on  a  Agave  you  get  that  little 
 round  circular  direct  um  like  looks  like 
 a  just  a  bright  shining  little  circular 
 uh  light  right  on  this  Agave  now  the 
 wall  light  has  like  a  screen  diffuser  in 
 it  so  it  has  a  a  widening  effect  so  you 
 can  already  see  it's  not  built  directly 
 like  a  spotlight  where  it  has  that  real 
 real  rounded  scope  it  has  more  of  a 
 broad  uh  space  to  the  front  of  of  it  or 
 face  to  the  front  of  it  and  then  it  has 
 a  diffuser  in  it  that  softens  the  light 
 and  widens  the  light  out  so  you  kind  of 
 get  that  whole  Shadow  effect  and  as  this 
 tree  gets  bigger  that  light  gets  even 
 cooler  because  it  really  winds  it  out  to 
 fill  the  whole  plant  versus  that  just 
 that  little  circular  hot  spot  on  it  so 
 anytime  you  pick  up  any  even  the  Malibu 
 lights  or  the  home  deeper  or  Lowe's 
 lights  get  the  wall  light  for  that 
 particular  these  particular  lower  plants 
 anything  under  5  foot  a  wall  light  is 
 ideal  for  even  those  anti-l  that  you 
 guys  we  just  looked  at  over  there  in  the 
 video 
 earlier  has  a  wall  light  on  it  for  that 
 same  particular  reason  because  I  don't 
 want  just  a  hot  spot  I  want  a  wide  angle 
 so  that's  what  these  guys  have  on  them 
 now  um  when  it  comes  to  Oak  Tree 
 Lighting  now  this  can  be  this  is  a 
 difficult  thing  um  on  this  particular 
 one  if  we  put  the  oak  tree  spotlights 
 here  and  here  because  this  is  a  major 
 seating  section  the  e  time  for  my 
 clients  it  would  shine  right  into  their 
 eyes  so  we  were  really  worried  about  how 
 we  were  going  to  light  up  this  tree  now 
 if  we  put  spotlights  directly  underneath 
 of  them  all  it's  going  to  do  is  light  up 
 this  trunk  when  we  really  want  to  light 
 up  the  canopy  so  it's  going  to  light  up 
 the  trunk  and  then  the  bounce  back  light 
 is  going  to  hit  right  into  the  faces  of 
 our  clients  so  what  we  chose  to 
 do  is  for  the  oak  trees  only  we  chose  to 
 run  the  line  up  the  inside  of  the  gutter 
 to  the  rear  side  of  the  gutter  there  not 
 through  the  gutter  but  through  the  back 
 side  of  it  where  it's  hidden  and  then  um 
 up  to  those  up  to  those  um  spotlights 
 that  you  see  right  there  and  that  shines 
 that  beam  right  into  the  canopy  right 
 into  the  prettiest  parts  of  that  oak 
 tree  and  hopefully  we  can  come  back  here 
 tonight  and  show  you  guys  kind  of  how 
 that  looks  but  it  does  a  nice  job  of 
 giving  you  a  really  great  halo  effect  of 
 all  of  those  all  of  those  um  trunks  it's 
 just  so  gorgeous  so  so  if  you  have  a 
 spot  like  that  you  can  find  the  um 
 little  adapters  and  little  anchors  that 
 will  connect  to  your  gutters  like  you 
 see  here  and  then  you  can  put  your 
 spotlights  just  like  so  and  I  know  that 
 that's  visible  and  that  might  offend 
 some  people  um  I  don't  mind  it  I  think 
 it  looks  perfectly  fine  but  it's  you 
 know  it's  to  each  his  own  but  I  do  think 
 that  does  a  nice  job  of  elevating  your 
 lighting  especially  if  you  have  a  seaing 
 section  directly  under  it  so  um  the 
 other  lights  that  we  use  these  are  just 
 our  spotlights  we  only  use  spotlights 
 and  wall  lights  in  our  in  our  landscape 
 light 
 now  we  might  use  bigger  wall  lights  if 
 we've  got  a  broader  Spectrum  we  might 
 use  taller  spotlights  but  I  rarely  find 
 myself  ever  using  um  walkway  lights  I 
 don't  like  the  runway  lights  in  any  kind 
 of  way  I  don't  like  the  the  look  where 
 you  have  a  dotted  grouping  of  just  light 
 shining  down  on  the  ground  I  like  that 
 look  of  a  resort  like  lit  up  Garden 
 where  the  trees  have  different  lights  on 
 them  um  only  and  so  when  I  have  tall 
 palm  trees  I'll  put  a  higher  bulb  like 
 aeven  seven  watt  bulb  on  those  so  Fox 
 tailes  get  seven  watt  bulbs  where  pigm  8 
 Palms  might  get  a  four  watt  bulb  so  that 
 way  we  have  a  low  light  and  a  high  light 
 so  kind  of  if  you  can  kind  of  play  with 
 your  lighting  that  way  then  I'm  telling 
 you  it  makes  a  huge  difference  when 
 you're  looking  at  the  the  overall 
 lighting  package  because  it  looks  like  a 
 like  a  shading  effect  of  lights  and 
 brights  in  certain  areas  and  then  that 
 way  you  get  that  whole  Shadow  effect 
 because  if  you  used  a  five  or  four  watt 
 light  on  your  pygmies  and  you  used  a 
 four  watt  light  on  your  fox  tails  by  the 
 time  your  fox  tail  is  15  foot  it's  only 
 going  to  shine  as  high  as  however  high 
 that  that  pygmy  is  going  to  shine  so 
 your  lights  are  all  more  the  same  if  you 
 can  so  you  can  imagine  that  your  taller 
 lights  are  going  to  shine  much  higher  so 
 that's  kind  of  what  you  want  is  highs 
 and  lows  highs  and  lows  so  so  I  hope 
 that  was  a  very  long  way  of  answering  a 
 very  simple  question  and  you  guys  got 
 that  across  you  can  see  why  these  videos 
 I  thought  it  was  a  great  idea  for  us  to 
 do  a  video  question  at  the  end  of  every 
 um  series  the  end  of  every  tour  because 
 I  really  do  um  I  to  it  take  me  a  long 
 time  to  type  all  that  and  I  don't  know 
 if  it  would  have  gotten  acrossed  as 
 easily  as  if  I  were  to  actually  be  able 
 to  share  it  with  you  guys  in  person  so 
 thank  you  so  much  I've  really  enjoyed 
 doing  this  tour  I'm  thinking  thank  you 
 um  both  Renee  and  Mick  for  allowing 
 Bryce  and  I  to  come  here  and  crash  your 
 Saturday  afternoon  and  sharing  this  with 
 our  YouTube  family  you  have  a  beautiful 
 garden  and  I'm  so  grateful  to  be  a  part 
 of  it  um  thank  you  guys  comment  true 
 Gardener  if  you're  a  true  Gardener  thank 
 you  guys  so  much  and  I  look  forward  to 
 seeing  you  in  the  very  next  video  take 
 care

---

 and  I'll  do  it  from  bottom  to  top  I  love 
 to  do  that  in  the  morning  the  pores  of 
 the  Palms  are  open  in  the  morning  so 
 that's  an  ideal  time 
 to  so  hey  gardeners  welcome  back  so  we 
 at  my  home  today  and  this  is  another 
 video  on  our  question  and  answer  series 
 you  asked  we  are  answering  and  I  want  to 
 share  with  you  guys  how  I  fertilize  my 
 palms  and  the  product  I  use  to  fertilize 
 it  I'm  absolutely  in  love  with  the  Palm 
 gain  8212  it's  a  fantastic  product  love 
 it  for  keep  my  Palms  Lush  and  really 
 really  happy  and  healthy  I'll  kind  of 
 share  with  you  on  the  back  what  those 
 numbers  refer  to  so  overall  it's  for  the 
 nitrogen  for  the  eight  phosphorus  for 
 two  and  phosphorus  is  ideal  to  have  some 
 in  there  but  not  to  overdo  it  and  then 
 12  for  potassium  so  um  my  yard  has  a 
 tendency  to  um  be  potassium  deficient  so 
 I  love  that  this  got  12  in  here  because 
 I  really  do  need  a  d  of  that  now 
 everybody  thinks  and  in  general  we  all 
 talk  about  fertilizing  our  plants  and 
 our  trees  um  but  really  this  is  pretty 
 much  going  into  the  ground  so  that  way 
 it  pull  from  the  soil  that  you  currently 
 have  so  if  you  have  the  ability  to  do  a 
 soil  test  to  kind  of  find  out  what  your 
 um  what  your  soil  is  missing  that  way 
 you  can  add  to  it  or  maybe  raise  one  of 
 those  numbers  or  others  if  you  need  to 
 in  your  garden  it's  well  worth  the 
 effort  because  I  I  know  that  my  soil  has 
 a  natural  potassium  deficiency  so  I 
 might  come  in  and  add  a  bit  more  of  that 
 just  to  just  to  know  that  I'm  covered 
 especially  if  I  start  seeing  any  kind  of 
 variation  in  leaf  coverage  if  my  if  my 
 leaves  start  having  some  flaking  in  here 
 I  know  that  I'm  having  a  little  bit  of  a 
 deficiency  but  as  you  can  see  my  leaves 
 are  fully  green  fully  happy  and  very 
 very  strong  and  that  goes  for  most  of  my 
 palm  trees  and  I  know  that's  because  of 
 this  8212  mixture  it's  a  very  very  easy 
 mixture  to  apply  now  I  do  this  every 
 single  March  June  and  September  I'll  hit 
 it  again  in  December  if  it's  going  to  be 
 if  it  looks  like  it's  going  to  be  a  warm 
 winter  I'll  hit  it  a  fourth  time  but 
 overall  it's  about  every  every  90  days 
 you  can  hit  it  with  this  granular  the 
 only  thing  about  this  particular  product 
 not  everything  is  a  slow  release  on  this 
 product  the  nitrogen  is  a  slow  release 
 but  if  you  notice  that  you  might  be 
 needing  a  little  bit  more  in  between 
 those  times  you  can  use  something  like 
 um  like  this  drench  that  is  obviously 
 heavily  used  in  my  garden  I  can  use  this 
 in  between  times  it  does  a  fantastic  job 
 of  giving  my  trees  a  um  just  a  nice  bit 
 of  dose  of  nutrients  and  then  they  have 
 micronutrients  in  them  and  it's  just  a 
 fantastic  product  what  I  do  is  I  take 
 that  um  the  8212  fertilizer  I  put  it  in 
 this  little  mop  bucket  and  then  I  take 
 several  handfuls  of  this  and  I  work  my 
 way  around  the  tree  and  I  like  to  call 
 it  kind  of  like  I'm  chicken  feeding  it  a 
 bit  so  all  I  really  do  is  I  get  around 
 the  root  base  and  I  you  know  start  from 
 the  back  and  work  my  way  all  the  way 
 around  the 
 tree  and  there  is  a  label  on  the  back 
 based  on  how  big  the  caliber  of  your 
 trunks  are  but  I've  been  doing  this  so 
 long  that  I  um  I  kind  of  just  feel  it 
 out  I  seem  to  have  a  better  handle  on 
 that  than  I  do  on  my  cooking  recipes  so 
 adding  salt  is  a  bit  much  um  on  most  of 
 my  cooking  but  as  i'  mentioned  earlier 
 this  is  a  great  product  about  three  to 
 four  times  a  year  here  and  this  is  a 
 product  that  I  use  on  um  my  entire 
 Garden  it's  um  the  directions  are  here  I 
 wish  you  could  read  them  but  it's  very 
 very  easy  to  work  with  you  just  mix  an 
 ounce  of  this  into  a  gallon  jug  and  pour 
 it  around  the  root  base  or  you  can  do  it 
 easy  like  I  tend  to  do  it  with  a  hose 
 and  sprayer  I'll  get  Bryce  to  put  up  a 
 video  up  here  on  the  side  of  me  doing 
 that  in  my  entire  backyard  I  put  it  into 
 a  hose  and  sprayer  set  it  to  the  desired 
 you  know  um  dosage  that  I  want  which  is 
 1  o  per  gallon  and  then  just  let  the 
 hose  go  and  I'll  just  hit  all  my  palms 
 and  I'll  do  it  from  bottom  to  top  now  I 
 love  to  do  that  in  the  morning  the  pores 
 of  the  Palms  are  open  in  the  morning  so 
 that's  an  ideal  time  to  um  to  fertilize 
 you  do  is  you  take  that  hose  and  sprayer 
 and  you  go  from  the  bottom  all  the  way 
 to  the  top  and  that  goes  to  all  your 
 palms  if  you're  like  me  and  you  have  a 
 collection  of  palms  and  tropicals  and 
 all  that  underneath  do  not  worry  it's 
 not  going  to  hurt  your  plants  below  it's 
 going  to  be  just  fine  so  um  but  it's 
 just  a  fantastic  dosing  um  product  to 
 use  I  absolutely  love  it  and  there's 
 also  a  palm  nutritional  spray  that  I 
 don't  have  with  me  but  I'll  I'll  be  sure 
 to  link  it  and  post  it  a  picture  of  what 
 that  looks  like  but  those  are  all 
 fabulous  things  to  incorporate  into  your 
 garden  and  overall  if  you're  just  kind 
 of  plugging  and  playing  with  your  hose 
 it's  a  very  very  easy  thing  to  do  so  I 
 hope  that  really  helps  you  guys  if 
 you've  made  it  this  far  in  the  video 
 please  comment  true  Gardener  because  you 
 are  a  true  Gardener  I  am  a  true  Gardener 
 we  are  at  a  true  Gardener  Network  and 
 I'd  absolutely  love  that  and  I  will  see 
 you  guys  in  the  very  next  video  thank 
 you  so  much

---

 but  if  I  put  that  plant  10et  over  to 
 this  particular  spot  within  days  it 
 would 
 burn  well  hello  gardeners  welcome  back 
 today  we  are  in  my  backyard  again  Vero 
 Beach  Florida  Zone  10A  and  we  are 
 talking  about  microclimates  all  about 
 microclimates  what  they  are  how  to 
 change  them  for  the  type  of  plant 
 grouping  that  you're  looking  for  um  a 
 lot  of  my  um  subscribers  have  asked  some 
 questions  about  why  certain  plants  are 
 doing  good  here  and  the  same  plant  is 
 not  doing  so  well  here  and  a  lot  of 
 times  my  comments  have  more  to  do  with 
 microclimate  so  I  thought  let  me  kind  of 
 explain  that  in  a  video  and  hope  this 
 helps  many  of  you  guys  kind  of  uh  get 
 the  perfect  place  for  the  perfect  plants 
 what  they  are  is  something  as  simple  as 
 um  a  location  that  is  different  from  the 
 neighboring  location  where  you  change  a 
 climate  or  you  have  a  specific  climate 
 in  one  spot  and  then  maybe  five  or  six 
 feet  over  it's  a  completely  different 
 spot  like  for  instance  where  I'm 
 standing  here  right  now  I  am  under  this 
 PL  under  this  plant  grouping  of  of 
 fronds  on  this  beautiful  Spindle  Palm 
 which  changed  this  microclimate  for  this 
 one  little  grouping  of  plants  that  I 
 have  down  below  this  offers  filtered 
 light  this  offers  protection  from  the 
 heaviest  rainfall  this  offers  um  just  a 
 little  bit  more  humidity  because  it's 
 engulfed  in  this  this  kind  of  big  heavy 
 frond  grouping  and  then  it's  also  a 
 different  type  of  wind  so  I  can  put  in 
 Plants  here  that  are  a  little  bit  more 
 tender  a  little  bit  more  um 
 difficult  to  work  with  as  far  as  plants 
 go  um  that  need  a  little  bit  more 
 overall  protection  and  that's  what 
 that's  what  changing  a  microclimate  does 
 that's  why  a  lot  of  times  somebody  will 
 say  if  I  want  to  kind  of  create  a  more 
 shade  environment  plant  a  few  trees 
 that'll  give  that  area  protection  from 
 the  heavy  rainfall  give  them  protection 
 from  the  wind  give  them  protection  from 
 the  Sun  most  importantly  so  right  here 
 we  are  on  the  east  side  of  my  house  so 
 we  getting  good  morning  sun  to  midday 
 Sun  however  let  me  show  you  over  here  so 
 first  and  foremost  for  give  the  crazy 
 chaos  right  here  we're  in  the  project  of 
 putting  in  a  spa  and  it's  making  my 
 backyard  a  mess  but  I  want  to  really 
 show  with  you  show  you  is  how  this  side 
 of  my  yard  even  though  it  is  the  same 
 yard  as  the  opposite  side  of  my  deck 
 here  where  this  uh  wall  is  this  area  is 
 pretty  much  heavy  heavy  heavy  afternoon 
 sun  sorry  we're  on  a  cloudy  day  today 
 but  this  is  heavy  afternoon  sun  here  and 
 then  this  area  is  pretty  much  all 
 afternoon  shade  now  this  has  been 
 created  so  we've  created  this 
 microclimate  over  time  by  incorporating 
 first  of  all  a  big  hedge  of  kusia  to  the 
 back  and  then  in  um  palm  trees 
 intermingled  back  through  there  to  kind 
 of  create  this  shade  you  can  kind  of  see 
 Bryce  if  you  look  at  some  of  those  FRS 
 you  can  see  the  speckled  light  coming 
 through  but  you  see  how  that  sun  is 
 right  there  but  it's  really  really 
 you're  only  getting  a  tad  bit  of  just  a 
 little  bit  of  light  Shadow  here  and 
 there  that's  the  perfect  environment  for 
 a  tropical  shade  garden  and  that's 
 exactly  what  what  I  wanted  in  this  space 
 I  wanted  big  leaf  material  variegated 
 material  very  very  tropical  material  and 
 material  that  is  a  little  bit  on  the 
 susceptible  side  to  cold  tolerance  to 
 not  being  cold  tolerant  for  Zone  10A  um 
 some  of  these  things  could  burn  if  they 
 were  in  my  front  yard  um  out  in  the  open 
 but  because  they're  engulfed  in  first 
 the  Windbreak  of  all  of  those  plants  to 
 the  back  and  then  the  trees  kind  of 
 protect  them  from  the  heavy  rays  of  the 
 Sun  and  um  and  then  there's  such  a  big 
 grouping  of  plants  together  that  they 
 really  have  a  u  a  really  good  chance 
 because  of  all  the  humidity  they  gather 
 as  one  solid  group  so  they're  going  to 
 get  I  don't  have  to  worry  about 
 protecting  them  because  they  kind  of 
 almost  have  a  blanket  of  each  other 
 protecting  them  instead  of  me  having  to 
 protect  something  individually  from  a 
 cold  front  and  to  give  you  guys  an 
 example  so  here  we  have  my  agema  plants 
 so  I  love  these  guys  they  are  as  hearty 
 as  you  get  you  give  them  too  much  water 
 they're  happy  you  give  them  not  enough 
 water  they're  happy  you  don't  trim  them 
 they're  happy  they're  just  like  an 
 overall  tough  plant  I'm  seriously 
 thinking  about  putting  them  everywhere 
 in  my  garden  but  I  can't  because  this  is 
 the  perfect  microclimate  for  them  BR  if 
 you  look  up  you'll  see  they're 
 surrounded  by  plant  and  tree  groupings 
 that  protect  them  from  the  Sun  that 
 protect  these  big  old  leaves  from 
 getting  split  from  um  the  wind  they're 
 just  in  the  perfect  incased  environment 
 this  is  almost  like  an  indoor 
 environment  that  we've  created  with 
 extra  humidity  so  this  is  kind  of  where 
 they  belong  now  if  I  took  this  plant  and 
 I  moved  it  so  if  I  moved  it  straight 
 across  and  put  it  right  here  in  the 
 direct  sun  where  that  sun  you  guys  can 
 see  on  my  the  on  my  face  how  that  Sun 
 hits  and  it's  a  cloudy  day  but  if  I  put 
 that  plant  10t  over  to  this  particular 
 spot  within  days  it  would  burn  so  this 
 is  not  the  perfect  environment  for  it 
 and  that's  the  difference  between 
 microclimates  you  can  be  on  the  same 
 side  of  the  house  you  can  be  well  within 
 footage  of  one  another  and  this  plant  is 
 not  in  no  way  going  to  be  happy  or 
 survive  this  type  of  spots  look  at  the 
 microclimates  in  your  garden  really  kind 
 of  get  a  good  familiar  uh  feel  for  your 
 yard  that  way  you  can  determine  hey  this 
 plant  is  going  to  do  fantastic  here  and 
 this  and  maybe  six  feet  over  not  so  much 
 here  or  replicate  what's  going  on  over 
 there  so  that  way  you  can  be  sure  that 
 this  plant's  now  going  to  survive  in 
 both  locations  so  a  few  key  things  to 
 remember  when  it  comes  to  um  you  know 
 just  kind  of  diagnosing  your  yard  for 
 the  right  plant  for  the  right 
 microclimate  is  um  not  not  just  location 
 not  just  north  south  east  west  but  also 
 consider  kind  of  what's  overhead  what 
 kind  of  blockage  you  have  but  as  well  as 
 what  it's  next  to  so  right  here  we  have 
 a  wall  that's  going  to  absorb  quite  a 
 bit  of  the  sun  this  is  a  concrete  wall  I 
 do  the  same  thing  with  rocks  um  or 
 Boulders  but  this  concrete  wall  is  going 
 to  bounce  back  that  heat  so  all  day  long 
 the  heat  that  this  wall  collects 
 whatever  we  have  it's  going  to  bounce 
 that  heat  onto  to  whatever  plant 
 grouping  that  I  have  here  so  rocks  do 
 such  a  good  job  of  kind  of  helping  keep 
 that  that  heat  in  place  so  they  do  a 
 great  job  if  they  absorb  that  heat 
 throughout  the  day  they're  going  to 
 disperse  it  through  the  evening  hours  so 
 that  plant  in  that  area  is  going  to  stay 
 very  very  warm  compared  to  plants  and 
 trees  within  mulch  conditions  which  is 
 why  I  I  mentioned  in  a  lot  of  my  videos 
 that  you  know  this  plant  is  great  for 
 stone  and  this  plant  is  great  for  mulch 
 because  you  want  to  make  sure  that  um 
 that  plant  that  is  going  to  be  around 
 stone  can  handle  that  radiating  heat 
 that  um  happens  throughout  the  whole  day 
 same  thing  with  structures  you  guys  so 
 what  goes  against  this  wall  I  want 
 blooms  here  in  my  future  planting  that's 
 what's  going  to  happen  here  which  is 
 fabulous  because  like  things  like 
 hibiscus  and  things  like  exor  things 
 like  things  like  a  foxtail  Ferns  and 
 blue  my  Minds  those  are  things  that  can 
 handle  that  bounce  back  heat  yellow 
 thalis  I  mean  I  just  fire  bush  you  know 
 all  of  those  things  can  really  handle 
 that  intense  heat  because  that  heat  is 
 not  only  going  to  last  during  the 
 hottest  part  of  the  day  but  it's  going 
 to  last  um  well  into  the  evening  hours 
 well  into  that  time  frame  that's  why 
 during  a  cold  front  I  use  whatever 
 plants  and  trees  that  are  within  the 
 stone  gardens  and  we've  had  a  good  hot 
 day  I  don't  worry  about  covering  them  I 
 use  that  to  my  advantage  I  don't  w  i 
 don't  bother  covering  them  because  I 
 know  throughout  the  evening  hours 
 throughout  the  night  throughout  the  cold 
 that's  going  to  be  the  warmest  part  of 
 my  whole  garden  it's  the  mulch  areas 
 where  there's  a  little  bit  more  moisture 
 that  I  you  know  make  sure  that  if  I  have 
 to  cover  I'm  covering  in  those 
 particular  spots  but  um  yeah  so  kind  of 
 pay  attention  to  that  and  it's  not  just 
 Stones  um  not  just  walls  it's  also 
 bounced  back  like  off  of  that  wood 
 structure  there  so  that  area  right  there 
 whatever  is  hitting  whatever  is  bouncing 
 back  off  of  that  I  need  to  make  sure 
 it's  not  something  like  a  like  a  giant 
 elephan  ear  for  instance  because  that  is 
 going  to  burn  a  hole  into  those  big 
 giant  leaves  that's  not  what  it's  made 
 for  you  want  to  make  sure  that  it  is 
 something  that  can  really  tolerate  and 
 really  absorb  that  heat  so  you  guys  we 
 are  on  the  north  side  of  my  property 
 over  here  and  this  is  right  at  the  edge 
 so  um  this  is  the  area  that  has  a  little 
 bit  of  overhang  of  canopy  but  not  much 
 we're  we're  still  getting  quite  a  bit  of 
 sun  and  I  wanted  to  start  here  for  one 
 reason  um  so  I  have  um  a  collection  of 
 Nester  croin  and  they're  kind  of  popping 
 out  more  and  more  this  way  probably 
 because  they're  getting  crowded  out  by 
 everything  else  in  this  little  bed  but 
 um  they're  they're  popping  out  and  as 
 they  do  they're  really  kind  of  bleaching 
 out  a  little  bit  because  this  is  the 
 sunniest  spot  of  the  whole  bed  you  can 
 kind  of  see  how  this  how  several  of  the 
 leaves  bleach  out  as  the  Sun  hits  now 
 during  the  winter  months  they'll  get  a 
 little  bit  more  um  pronounced  but 
 because  we've  had  such  heavy  Sun  this 
 summer  they're  really  um  they're  really 
 kind  of  the  the  tops  of  them  are  really 
 starting  to  uh  to  bleach  out  a  bit  now 
 if  you  take  and  look  not  even  a  foot 
 maybe  two  foot  over  actually  you're 
 going  to  notice  that  this  is  the  same 
 plant  here  and  look  at  how  dark  the  same 
 plant  gets  in  a  much  much  more 
 controlled  environment  now  this  is  cover 
 covered  by  tons  of  other  foliage  right 
 by  that  plant  but  it's  maybe  2T  to  the 
 left  of  that  plant  but  because  of  all 
 the  supporting  neighbors  that  you're 
 getting  very  very  little  um  sun  compared 
 to  the  outside  plant  so  that's  just  a 
 small  difference  in  microclimate  so  if 
 um  if  you're  seeing  that  happen  and 
 you're  like  gosh  you  know  I  loved  what 
 what  these  guys  look  like  at  a  certain 
 period  but  now  they're  outgrowing  that 
 spot  and  then  the  tips  of  those  are 
 changing  then  it  might  be  time  for  you 
 to  add  something  to  protect  those  uh 
 those  edges  or  or  whatever  it  is  that 
 you're  not  liking  that  plant  doing 
 because  that  is  exactly  what  happens 
 more  sun  for  a  cotent  for  shade  croin 
 have  a  tendency  to  bleach  them  out  same 
 thing  with  quarter  lines  quarter  lines 
 have  a  tendency  to  get  bleached  out 
 these  normally  have  a  little  bit  of  pink 
 through  them  but  because  they're  in  more 
 of  a  sun  environment  they've  gone  more 
 green  on  me  all  right  guys  so  we  are  in 
 our  sidey  yard  and  um  I'm  going  to  share 
 with  you  a  couple  different  spots  in 
 this  particular  area  on  how  different 
 the  microclimates  are  here  um  first  of 
 all  I  do  want  to  share  with  you  guys  how 
 cool  this  mountain  is  growing 
 in  look  at  these  little  babies  coming 
 up  these  are  all  new  growth  from  the 
 water  that's  just  to  me  that's  just  so 
 amazing  how  they  can  grow  from  the  dirt 
 and  into  the  water  the  same  how  ideal 
 most  of  you  guys  probably  know  that 
 elephant  ears  can  work  right  in  water  so 
 if  you've  got  a  pot  in  your  garden  it 
 has  a  little  bit  of  bubbling  feature 
 maybe  it's  even  a  solar  bubbler  and  you 
 want  to  add  something  like  this  like  to 
 Crown  It  Off  off  you  can  totally  do  this 
 these  guys  do  so  well  in  soil  they  do  so 
 well  in  water  however  back  to 
 microclimates  they  need  a  bit  of 
 protection  so  if  they're  going  to  be 
 underneath  an  oak  tree  fabulous  or  o 
 under  a  a  canopy  of  palm  frons  like 
 we've  got  two  double  spindles  here  we've 
 got  a  um  Alfred  uh  coconut  cold  coconut 
 palm  back  here  and  a  very  large  um 
 double  King  Alexander  on  that  side  and 
 that  grouping  does  a  fantastic  job  of 
 just  giving  just  enough  light  to  give 
 this  plant  energy  but  not  one  burn  mark 
 I  mean  it  is  fantastic  this  is  the 
 perfect  amount  of  filtered  light  for 
 this  plant  to  grow  in  this  plant  is 
 loving  its  particular  location  its  home 
 uh  for  for  it  to  do  super  super  well  and 
 all  of  these  babies  are  proof  of  that  so 
 um  so  that's  just  one  little  spot  so 
 let's  walk  and  talk  over  here  all  right 
 so  PR  if  you  kind  of  go  at  an  angle 
 there  you  can  give  everybody  else  a  kind 
 of  the  Viewpoint  that  I'm  talking  about 
 so  if  this  right  here  we're  looking  at 
 these  I  mean  these  FAS  are  they  just  not 
 the  funnest  thing  ever  I  just  love  that 
 you  can  see  why  they're  called  heart  FAS 
 because  they  look  like  little  hearts  on 
 the  leaves  Fus  like  sun  so  um  this  plant 
 is  a  dwarfed  plant  done  super  well  time 
 for  a  little  bit  of  a  haircut  but  done 
 super  well  in  this  environment  now  if  I 
 put  them  back  there  I  would  have  a  much 
 thinner  plant  grouping  they  just  would 
 not  handle  back  there  where  my  burly 
 marks  are  all  of  those  plants  back  there 
 need  that  heavy  humidity  need  that 
 pretty  much  shade  shade  environment  and 
 they're  doing  so  fabulous  because  these 
 six  arica  Palms  are  creating  that  microc 
 climate  for  that  protection  on  those 
 however  with  the  sun  coming  up  this  way 
 right  in  the  middle  of  my  walkway  area 
 right  here  these  are  getting  not  only 
 the  Heat  and  the  direct  sun  for  early 
 early  morning  to  midday  they  are  also 
 getting  the  heat  from  all  the  rock  that 
 they're  in  these  are  heat  loving  plants 
 and  do  such  a  fantastic  job  for  that  so 
 um  now  they  probably  not  something  I 
 would  put  it  out  in  direct  sun  but  this 
 is  the  perfect  amount  of  sun  on  the 
 north  side  of  the  property  for  these 
 guys  so  they  can  handle  the  stone  the 
 bounce  back  from  the  the  heat  on  those 
 for  the  late  evening  hours  or  they  can 
 hand  and  they  can  handle  the  early 
 morning  to  midday  Sun  full  sun  in  that 
 environment  now  I'm  almost  embarrassed 
 to  share  this  with  you  guys  but  I  I  put 
 up  my  wall  and  I  haven't  done  an  updated 
 video  yet  but  I  will  there's  some 
 there's  some  mistakes  I  made  with  it  now 
 this  is  a  garden  area  that  gets  morning 
 light  in  this  particular  spot  and 
 everything  that  I've  had  in  the  past 
 here  can  particularly  handle  that  with 
 no  problem  I've  actually  had  too  much 
 shade  in  this  spot  because  of  the 
 protection  of  what  these  orka  palms  and 
 what  this  Palm  here  is  going  to  is 
 offering  but  we  do  have  one  corner  of 
 this  Garden  or  this  wall  that  I  did  not 
 think  about  because  of  the  angle  that 
 hits  between  the  trees  and  right  here  on 
 this  corner  you  can  see  that  my  ferns 
 have  burnt  to  a  Cris  risp  right  here  I 
 did  not  realize  how  much  sun  this  little 
 corner  of  the  garden  gets  and  it's  funny 
 how  it's  just  kind  of  like  AR  Ray  um  and 
 now  I  know  now  I  know  so  I'm  sorry  some 
 plants  were  murdered  in  the  effort  of  um 
 figuring  this  out  but  so  now  I'm  got  to 
 take  what  I  can  salvage  from  these  guys 
 and  just  move  them  down  the  same 
 location  but  in  the  same  wall  see  here 
 how  we're  having  some  some  underneath 
 here  underneath  the  foliage  where 
 they're  prot  ected  they're  nice  and 
 green  so  we're  going  to  have  to  cut  this 
 back  and  move  these  guys  down  into  a 
 lower  section  of  the  wall  where  they're 
 going  to  do  just  fine  but  so  that's  kind 
 of  what  I  mean  a  lot  of  people  think  the 
 soil  must  not  be  good  here  because  it's 
 things  are  doing  great  over  here  but  on 
 this  side  they're  doing  poorly  it's  not 
 always  the  case  I  will  put  a  soil  video 
 out  because  that  is  a  nice  secondary 
 thing  to  look  at  but  a  lot  of  times  it 
 is  just  what  you're  dealing  with  do  you 
 have  bounce  back  heat  from  a  structure 
 is  that  that  particular  section  in  stone 
 is  that  um  is  is  it  just  not  protected 
 from  the  wind  you  know  there's  there's  a 
 reason  why  it's  doing  poorly  here  doing 
 great  here  and  a  lot  of  times  it  has  to 
 do  with  the  microclimate  so  sometimes 
 it's  simple  as  putting  in  a  young  Palm 
 there  to  give  it  a  little  bit  of 
 protection  or  put  in  some  backing  there 
 to  give  it  a  little  protection  or  it's 
 just  not  the  right  plant  because  of 
 whatever  structure  you  had  there 
 obviously  needs  to  stay  you're  going  to 
 want  to  put  something  there  that  can 
 handle  more  of  that  that  um  that  brutal 
 heat  that  brutal  Sun  okay  so  you  guys  we 
 are  now  on  the  west  side  of  my  property 
 so  this  area  gets  the  most  amount  of  sun 
 this  this  front  section  and  the  front 
 section  of  my  main  front  yard  area  so 
 this  is  just  to  the  outside  of  my  kusia 
 hedge  right  off  the  road  right  off  my 
 driveway  I  chose  to  put  in  these  uh 
 foxtail  Agave  now  these  foxtail  Agave 
 are  fabulous  they're  like  a  succulent  so 
 they  can  handle  the  Sun  but  anything 
 generally  with  a  big  soft  Leaf  like  this 
 doesn't  like  the  heaviest  rays  of  West 
 Sun  so  I  probably  wouldn't  put  if  I 
 didn't  have  a  couple  things  here  helping 
 protect  it  from  this  spot  these  guys 
 would  be  like  a  real  pale  yellow  you  can 
 see  the  struggle  in  them  they  just 
 really  don't  like  that  aggressiveness 
 now  as  things  get  bigger  in  in  plantwise 
 in  Florida  they  can  handle  more  sun  but 
 especially  when  they're  younger  they 
 would  they  would  look  pretty  pretty  poor 
 here  so  when  I  first  put  these  guys  in 
 this  tree  was  quite  a  bit  smaller  and  so 
 this  tree  did  a  fantastic  job  of  kind  of 
 giving  me  an  overshadow  effect  over  top 
 of  the  guys  allowing  them  the  time  to 
 get  substantial  in  size  now  this  tree 
 also  still  protects  you  can  kind  of  see 
 where  I'm  in  this  in  the  shade  and 
 everywhere  else  around  me  is  in  the  Sun 
 and  so  this  is  really  doing  kind  of 
 telling  you  exactly  why  these  plants  are 
 doing  so  so  well  in  this  type  of 
 environment  so  um  now  once  this  tree 
 gets  18  to  18  foot  cuz  that's  kind  of 
 their  Max  on  these  then  it's  going  to 
 get  more  cornered  sun  in  this  direct 
 area  hopefully  by  that  point  these  guys 
 are  going  to  be  big  enough  if  they're 
 not  that's  when  I  bring  something  else 
 in  to  kind  of  give  me  a  little  bit  more 
 of  coverage  on  those  sides  because  I 
 love  them  here  I  want  them  to  stay  here 
 long  term  these  love  a  good  20  years  and 
 I  want  them  here  for  20  years  so  if  my 
 landscaping  around  it  outgrows  an  area 
 it's  time  to  patch  things  in  that's  why 
 gardeners  it's  almost  impossible  to  say 
 when  are  you  going  to  be  done  because 
 you  know  plants  always  need  a  little  hug 
 here  and  there  so  a  little  protection  a 
 little  protection  where  they  need  to  be 
 so  um  so  you  can  absolutely  do  that 
 protect  your  plants  that  way  you  can  put 
 them  where  you  want  them  but  just  know 
 that  you  got  to  accommodate  them  give 
 them  a  little  bit  of  shade  find  them  a 
 shade  tree  if  they  need  it  so  okay  so 
 now  we're  kind  of  on  the  northwest  part 
 of  my  property  and  I  want  to  show  you  um 
 kind  of  what  I  was  meaning  about 
 bounceback  heat  so  these  are  my  quarter 
 lines  I  absolutely  love  this  collection 
 they've  been  here  a  long  time  they're 
 very  very  happy  here  I  propagate  cuting 
 here  cuz  I  want  this  to  be  just  a  a  real 
 big  chunky  hello  to  my  friends  and 
 family  coming  up  through  this  walkway 
 and  that's  exactly  what  they  do  however 
 we're  in  the  latter  part  of  Summer  and 
 the  summer  heat  has  taken  its  toll  on 
 these  guys  now  you  can  see  from  the 
 outside  edge  of  this  plant  grouping  all 
 of  the  um  burning  on  those  leaves  now 
 during  the  hottest  time  of  the  year  we 
 get  this  the  rest  of  part  of  the  year  it 
 does  not  even  affect  these  so  we  get 
 less  Sun  here  but  we  also  get  less  heat 
 on  these  pavers  these  pavers  and  the  sun 
 reflection  from  my  pond  really  push  that 
 sun  energy  onto  this  side  now  if  you 
 look  at  this  from  the  opposite  side  or 
 just  peel  these 
 back  and  look  at  what  these  look  like  on 
 the  inside  oh  my  goodness  so  peel  back 
 these  extras  and  then  look  at  that  that 
 color  all  on  the  inside  it's  absolutely 
 gorgeous  now  this  gets  Sun  color  from 
 directly  above  you  think  it  would  get 
 the  same  kind  of  the  same  kind  of  um  Sun 
 as  these  outside  ones  but  it  does  not  so 
 because  the  what's  really  really  burning 
 these  is  not  the  Sun  hitting  this  area 
 cuz  it's  hitting  it  from  the  top  too  but 
 it's  from  this  this  walkway  and  from  the 
 reflection  of  the  water  so  that  really 
 it  really  kind  of  tells  you  a  lot  about 
 microclimates  I  hope  all  right  you  guys 
 so  that  does  it  for  microclimates  for 
 today  I  hope  that  helps  I  mean  I  think 
 it's  it's  a  fairly  simple  concept  um 
 it's  just  kind  of  something  that  we 
 don't  always  think  about  so  I  want  to 
 definitely  bring  some  attention  to  it  to 
 you  gardeners  who  are  are  planting  your 
 Landscapes  and  and  hopes  that  really 
 gives  you  some  just  some  insight  so  make 
 sure  you  use  it  to  your  advantage  if 
 you've  got  rocks  if  you've  got 
 structures  in  your  garden  if  you've  got 
 um  anything  that's  going  to  hold  heat 
 like  that  Boulders  and  whatnot  you  know 
 bring  in  some  of  those  cool  Exotics  that 
 maybe  your  Zone  doesn't  quite  allow 
 because  you  know  that's  going  to  give 
 that  extra  heat  during  during  your  cold 
 snap  so  um  you  know  so  kind  of  use  it  to 
 your  advantage  if  you  want  more  shade 
 loving  plants  if  you  want  more  of  that 
 kind  of  jungle  Vibe  or  big  leaves  it's 
 time  to  bring  in  the  Palms  which  is  not 
 such  a  bad  thing  is  it  so  bring  in  some 
 coverage  bring  in  some  protection  block 
 that  wi  that  winter  wi  from  hitting 
 those  things  with  some  additional 
 groupings  all  the  way  around  so  please 
 remember  to  comment  true  Garder  I  will 
 see  you  guys  very  soon  please  do  not 
 forget  to  like  And  subscribe  if  this  is 
 the  kind  of  content  that  you  like  to 
 just  kind  of  pop  in  and  check  out  and 
 let  it  encourage  you  and  inspire  you 
 because  gez  that's  that's  the  point 
 we're  we're  we're  wanting  to  get  outside 
 we're  wanting  to  to  be  in  our  Gardens  so 
 anything  that  you  can  um  check  out  while 
 you're  drinking  your  cup  of  coffee  or 
 your  glass  of  wine  in  the  evening  then  I 
 I  hope  this  video  is  on  that  list  so  I 
 will  see  you  guys

---

 you  know  this  is  the  centerpiece  the  two 
 on  each  side  kind  of  winging  the 
 centerpiece  and  then  a  row  of  more  of 
 the  sun  burm 
 milads  all  right  so  hello  gardeners 
 today  we  are  back  for  a  PL  of  the  week 
 today  is  going  to  be  the  verad  so  we 
 have  a  few  different  varieties  of  course 
 you  know  my  favorite  is  imperialis  I 
 absolutely  am  in  love  with  their  cool 
 look  that's  what  I  have  right  at  my 
 front  entrance  way  to  my  backyard  pond 
 area  I  love  this  variegation  in  leaf  I 
 love  that  little  purple  tinge  purple 
 edging  to  that  green  leaf  I  just  think 
 it's  absolutely  stunning  I  also  like  on 
 this  particular  vermilia  that  it  does 
 not  produce  pups  so  it  is  a  oneandone 
 I'm  not  pulling  out  babies  around  it  or 
 you  know  kind  of  really  fussing  with  it 
 it  is  a  stationary  plant  it  doesn't 
 overgrow  its  area  it's  large  enough  to 
 make  an  impact  but  not  too  large  to 
 overgrow  a  space  so  I'm  very  very  happy 
 with  this  plant  overall  I  use  it  in  a 
 lot  of  my  Landscapes  I  think  it  creates 
 just  kind  kind  of  a  a  soft  bit  of  um 
 tropical  fun  I  want  to  share  with  you  a 
 little  bit  about  its  pros  and  about  its 
 cons  so  that  way  you  guys  can  determine 
 if  it's  going  to  fit  into  your  garden  so 
 overall  the  imperialis  vermil  ad  is  a 
 longed  life  vermil  ad  um  it  does  shoot 
 up  a  flower  when  it's  very  when  it's 
 done  and  reached  its  maturity  and  at 
 that  point  it  does  kind  of  die  off  now 
 at  that  point  you  will  receive  a  pup  or 
 two  and  you  can  kind  of  start  it  into  a 
 little  pot  and  kind  of  start  over  again 
 but  not  until  that  point  so  it  doesn't 
 kind  of  overpopulate  until  it's  ready  to 
 move  on  which  is  kind  of  cool  a  lot  of 
 people  get  concerned  about  those  because 
 their  cups  is  where  they  hold  their 
 water  so  when  you  water  these  guys  you 
 water  them  from  the  top  they  hold  that 
 water  in  these  individual  leaves  just 
 which  we  call  the  cups  and  that's  where 
 they  receive  their  nutrients  if  that 
 area  um  stays  pretty  stagnant  because 
 obviously  water  needs  to  move  and  in 
 burm  milads  it  will  not  move  so  about 
 every  two  weeks  I'll  come  through  here 
 if  we  don't  get  a  good  rain  which  rarely 
 happens  in  Florida  so  most  of  the  time 
 it  does  other  nature  does  this  for  for 
 her  BM  milads  but  when  she's  you  know 
 busy  I  will  do  it  for  her  and  so  I  will 
 take  my  hose  and  I  will  water  out  the 
 cups  of  the  vermilia  now  I'll  show  you 
 one  that  really  really  needs  it  done  so 
 that  way  you  guys  can  see  what  that 
 looks  like  so  we've  got  one  here  and  you 
 can  really  see  on  the  um  inside  of  these 
 cups  where  that  water's  held  that  it's 
 been  in  there  for  weeks  so  all  I  do  is  I 
 take  my  hose  and  I  stand  back  a  little 
 bit  cuz  I  don't  want  that  g  on  me  but 
 I'll  stand  back  a  little  bit  and  I'll 
 just  circle  the  vermil  ad  with  my  hose 
 that'll  leech  out  through  the  uh  leaves 
 of  the  plant  and  then  just  dissipate 
 down  the  Plant  and  then  up  you  know  do  a 
 natural  fertilizer  for  the  plant  so  what 
 you  don't  want  to  do  is  allow  that  to 
 collect  because  you  know  bugs  and 
 whatnot  will  get  in  there  and  mosquitoes 
 will  get  in  there  so  you  kind  of  want  to 
 keep  that  where  it's  moving  water  a  week 
 or  so  if  it  stays  in  there  and  we  don't 
 get  rain  you'll  want  to  wash  those  out 
 so  I  I  don't  have  any  trouble  with 
 mosquitoes  I  don't  have  any  screens  on 
 my  back  patio  area  we'll  get  an 
 occasional  you  know  dry  spell  and 
 they'll  be  kind  of  more  prevalent  but 
 overall  um  you  know  it's  it's  I'm  a 
 fairly  fairly  good  area  for  that  so  if 
 mosquitoes  like  you  know  pretty  much 
 kind  of  take  on  take  on  your  backyard 
 you  may  want  to  prevent  having  bads  from 
 that  area  but  I  really  I  appreciate  them 
 I  love  the  way  they  look  I  think  they're 
 a  fantastic  feature  to  have  within  a 
 garden  they  really  offer  a  lot  of 
 tropical  impact  for  such  a  small  plant 
 now  I  will  show  you  some  of  the  ones 
 that  do  provide  pups  these  guys  are 
 fabulous  I  absolutely  love  all  the  NEOS 
 these  are  called  sexy  pink  and  I  love 
 their  variation  in  color  but  they  will 
 provide  a  little  pup  when  they're  done 
 with  their  um  when  they're  done  with 
 their  life  cycle  now  it  might  be  a 
 little  hard  to  see  over  here  Bryce  this 
 is  another  Neo  you  kind  of  see  how  the 
 mother  plant  has  died  and  then  you  got  a 
 new  plant  that's  come  in  in  and  so  all 
 you 
 do  is  you  just  cut  that  old  plant 
 out  giving  the  new  plant  time  to  really 
 take  over  that  space  it  just  pops  out 
 just  like  so  now  we've  got  the  new  guy 
 in  it 
 spot  and  voila  you  have  a  new  plant  to 
 work  with  and  it's  absolutely 
 happy  I  mean  I  I  pretty  much  love  plants 
 that  you  know  know  spend  their  time  in 
 your  garden  and  then  you  know  when  it's 
 time  for  them  to  go  they'll  say  they'll 
 leave  you  a  partying  gift  and  I  just 
 think  that's  pretty  cool  as  far  as 
 fertilizing  they  don't  need  a  lot  of 
 fertilizer  because  you  know  they  will 
 catch  the  occasional  bug  or  two  and 
 that'll  really  offer  a  little  bit  of  um 
 crude  fertilization  for  them  but  um  I  do 
 use  Miracle  Grow  I  don't  use  a  lot  of  it 
 but  I  use  it  through  the  rest  of  my 
 garden  and  I'll  kind  of  show  you  what  I 
 use  kind  of  a  a  kind  of  a  shameful  thing 
 over  here  so  I'm  I'm  always  out  in  my 
 garden  so  this  is  still  connected  from 
 last  night  but  um  I  just  kind  of  have 
 this  plugged  in  I  have  this  Miracle  Grow 
 that  goes  in  the  back  here  and  then  I 
 hit  all  my  plants  with  this  just  kind  of 
 in  between  fertilizers  just  to  give  them 
 a  little  bit  of  love  when  I'm  thinking 
 about  it  and  I  happened  to  be  out  here 
 last  night  so  I  was  using  it  here  so  all 
 I  do  is  I  do  the  same  thing  with  my  ban 
 Vila  I  turn  it  on  to  feed  and  then  I 
 just  kind  of  just  give  them  a  little  bit 
 in  the  cups  now  you  don't  want  over 
 fertilize  your  buan  Villa  so  when  I  do 
 it  I  don't  have  my  hose  on  or  else  I'd 
 show  you  but  it's  just  like  a  little 
 squirt  voila  you're  done  it's  a  little 
 bit  in  the  cup  and  you're  done  you  don't 
 want  to  over  fertilize  this  now  if  this 
 were  a  blooming  plant  that  I'm 
 fertilizing  like  those  Brazilian  Red 
 cloaks  that  we  see  to  the  back  then  I 
 want  to  kind  of  stay  there  for  three  or 
 four  minutes  and  really  douse  those  guys 
 with  this  this  nutrient  fertilizer  so 
 what  I  like  about  Miracle  Grow  is  it's 
 diluted  so  you're  not  getting  a  bunch  of 
 um  heavy  fertiliz  you're  never  going  to 
 burn  your  plants  or  trees  with  this  guy 
 so  um  I  will  be  sure  to  link  what  I  use 
 Down  Below  in  the  description  so  that 
 way  way  if  you  guys  are  are  interested 
 in  using  this  product  it's  ideal  I  just 
 kind  of  take  it  on  and  screw  it  onto 
 different  hoses  throughout  the  garden 
 and  just  kind  of  work  it  work  it  through 
 my  garden  I  mainly  use  granular 
 fertilizer  um  three  to  four  times  a  year 
 but  in  between  those  times  when  I  kind 
 don't  want  everything  to  really  shine 
 I'll  hit  this  when  I  think  about  it  when 
 I'm  out  in  the  garden  and  I'm  willing  to 
 get  sweat  now  um  lastly  Bugan  Bas  do 
 need  to  be  trimmed  not  very  often  but 
 they  do  need  an  overall  trimming  so  what 
 I'll  do  is  I'll  go  through  and  you  know 
 like  like  for  instance  on  this 
 guy  you  can  do  it  two  different  ways 
 this  guy  is  still  so  small  and  so  young 
 that  I  can  use  my  Fel  Co  and  just 
 trim  off  that  limb  you  just  want  to  make 
 sure  that  you  get  as  close  to  the  main 
 part  of  the  plant  as  you  can  get  and 
 then  go  ahead  and  just  take  this  off  you 
 can  also  I  can  use  my  my  knife  and  take 
 this  little  sharp  edge  and  just  slice 
 off  the  bottom  I  would  just  hold  this 
 down  and  slice  it  there 
 but  um  it  just  really  depends  on  the 
 type  of  type  of  um  size  of  the  bgan  Vila 
 that  you  have  to  work  with  overall 
 that's  what  I  love  about  Boo  vas  is  I 
 mean  I  think  this  video  might  be  three 
 or  four  minutes  long  because  there's 
 really  not  a  lot  of  work  to  do  with  them 
 you  do  have  Sun  varieties  you  do  have 
 shade  varieties  so  you  kind  of  want  to 
 make  sure  that  that  you  look  out  for 
 both  what  I  love  about  the  imperialis  is 
 they  can  take  all  morning  sun  all  midday 
 sun  and  then  once  you  get  to  the  evening 
 hours  you  need  something  to  have  some 
 protection  so  by  the  evening  hours  my 
 house  pretty  much  gives  these  vermil  ads 
 the  blockage  they  need  if  these  were  in 
 a  environment  on  the  E  side  of  the  house 
 and  they  didn't  get  that  protection 
 these  would  really  struggle  however  they 
 can  handle  being  planted  in  rock  which 
 is  fabulous  because  their  nutrients 
 derived  mainly  from  the  cups  not  from 
 down  below  so  if  you've  got  a  rock 
 garden  and  you  need  to  dce  dice  it  up 
 with  some  interesting  uh  color  some 
 interesting  features  these  are  a 
 fantastic  little  intermediate  accent  to 
 really  pop  out  of  a  garden  I  you  could 
 just  they  really  don't  need  anything 
 else  but  rocks  in  a  garden  and  to  be 
 stunning  so  when  you're  working  with 
 planting  those  and  you  have  the  smaller 
 ones  mixed  with  the  bigger  ones  then  you 
 can  take  those  small  NEOS  that  we  just 
 saw  and  you  can  group  them  together  and 
 just  kind  of  stagger  them  so  you  have 
 one  here  here  here  and  just  kind  of 
 stagger  them  in  a  nice  formation  and 
 group  a  cluster  of  them  together  and  oh 
 my  goodness  they  are  absolutely  stunning 
 so  um  so  just  kind  of  pay  attention  to 
 the  tags  the  imperialis  the  silver 
 odadas  those  can  handle  full  full  sun 
 the  Red  Hots  full  sun  the  margarites 
 you're  kind  of  getting  on  a  on  a  you 
 know  this  type  of  space  where  they  can 
 handle  full  sun  to  early  afternoon  and 
 then  they  really  do  need  that  shade 
 protection  and  then  most  of  the  rest  of 
 the  NEOS  the  sexy  pinks  that  we  just  saw 
 really  need  to  be  unders  shade  canopy 
 they  do  their  very  very  best  so  one 
 other  thing  I  really  love  about  them  is 
 their  ability  to  be  placed  in  pots  so  if 
 you're  looking  for  something  for  your 
 pool  Planters  they're  an  ideal  thing 
 because  they  can  handle  that  heat  from 
 the  pool  planter  and  not  burn  up  um  and 
 then  you  don't  have  to  worry  about 
 watering  them  when  you're  away  for  a 
 week  you  know  you  can  just  D  them  with  a 
 little  bit  of  water  every  week  week  and 
 a  half  and  they're  perfectly  fine  I  have 
 them  in  my  Planters  here  and  I'll  show 
 you  an  example  of  what  I  mean  because 
 they  derive  energy  from  the  from  their 
 cups  they  kind  of  hold  water  on  their 
 own  this  is  not  a  great  example  these 
 guys  just  came  off  of  my  fireplace  area 
 we're  doing  some  remodeling  if  you 
 haven't  seen  from  the  previous  videos  so 
 they're  kind  of  in  a  temporary  spot  over 
 here  but  I'm  getting  ready  to  do  some 
 overall  trimming  and  cleaning  them  up 
 here  and  these  guys  can  handle  full  sun 
 these  are  red  hot  vermil  ads  and  then  in 
 the  middle  here  we  have  margarites  and 
 these  guys  you  can  see  they  have  a 
 little  bit  more  burn  to  them  now  they're 
 not  in  their  proper  environment  because 
 um  they  are  in  a  temporary  spot  but 
 overall  they  do  super  super  well  they're 
 also  um  epifit  where  they  can  actually 
 live  and  grow  on  trees  or  Boulders 
 because  then  they  natural  habitat  they 
 can  actually  attach  to  a  tree  and  climb 
 I  have  a  big  cluster  of  them  on  some 
 Driftwood  right  by  my  front  waterfall 
 and  we'll  walk  over  there  and  I'll  show 
 it  to  you  actually  on  on  our  way  to  the 
 front  I  will  we'll  mention  this  little 
 cluster  in  here  now  this  is  a  cluster  of 
 vermilia  this  is  a  good  Sunspot  my  lime 
 tree  soak  soaks  up  the  Sun  so  so  does 
 this  plant  collection  this  was  an  old 
 oak  tree  that  got  damaged  in  a  storm 
 years  and  years  ago  the  stuff  started  to 
 rot  I  had  no  idea  what  to  to  do  with  it 
 so  I  did  put  a  big  planter  on  top  of  it 
 so  we  have  a  planter  on  top  of  it  I  put 
 vermil  ads  around  a  broken  Fountain  Head 
 of  a  Buddha  that  I  found  I'm  not  sure  if 
 you're  supposed  to  keep  those  and  reuse 
 them  but  I  cannot  you  know  waste  not  W 
 not  so  I  put  put  it  right  here  um  and 
 then  I  encircled  it  with  more  vermil  ads 
 because  it  just  I  just  love  the  way  it 
 looked  these  are  those  silver  odor  radas 
 that  I  mentioned  these  guys  do  not 
 reproduce  new  bmad  these  are  single 
 individual  and  grow  to  about  3  3  and 
 1/2t  so  you  really  get  a  nice  dose  of 
 color  and  if  you're  standing  kind  of 
 like  where  I'm  standing  looking  into  the 
 garden  coming  into  the  backyard  you'll 
 get  you'll  be  able  to  see  kind  of  the 
 the  purpose  that  I  had  for  for  the  area 
 where  we  have  you  know  this  as  the 
 centerpiece  the  two  on  each  side  kind  of 
 winging  the  centerpiece  and  then  a  row 
 of  more  of  the  sun  burm  milads  because  I 
 know  this  back  area  gets  a  little  bit 
 more  protection  from  the  back  scenery 
 planting  here  and  this  front  gets  more 
 sun  so  um  another  thing  about 
 microclimates  we  have  a  little  more 
 protection  back  here  and  then  up  in  the 
 front  we  have  a  little  bit  more  sun  so 
 we  have  the  sun  vermil  ads  here  but  the 
 the  plants  to  the  back  the  vermil  ads  to 
 the  back  black  are  set  into  that  old 
 stump  so  they're  actually  growing  on  the 
 stump  in  the  stump  and  doing  super  super 
 well  and  so  you  can  pretty  much  if  you 
 have  an  an  a  tree  stump  an  old  tree 
 stump  like  I  do  and  you  kind  of  get 
 tired  of  looking  at  it  kind  of  just  div 
 it  a  little  a  little  hole  into  it  and 
 then  those  roots  will  grab  hold  and  and 
 sit  into  that  stump  so  and  then  it'll 
 kind  of  take  over  especially  if  you  have 
 the  little  ground  verm  milads  they'll 
 kind  of  creep  all  the  way  over  like  they 
 do  in  pots  isn't  nature  just  amazing  and 
 we'll  kind  of  see  how  that  works  on  the 
 Driftwood  that  we're  going  to  take  a 
 look  at  now  okay  so  here's  a  quick 
 glimpse  of  this  clustering  just  kind  of 
 sitting  right  on  top  of  some  drift  wood 
 in  my  little  creepy  Halloween  decoration 
 here  but  these  guys  get  full  sun  so  you 
 can  see  that  they've  kind  of  had  some 
 some  rays  and  some  Browning  from  the 
 full  sun  we've  had  a  really  really  hot 
 summer  this  year  so  they're  getting  that 
 but  they  have  multiplied  all  the  way 
 around  it  this  started  as  three  of  these 
 little  plants  one  gallons  and  then  two 
 of  these  guys  and  they  have  completely 
 multiplied  and  completely  engulfed  this 
 little  area  that's  what  I  love  about 
 burm  milads  is  that  you  can  really  um 
 you  can  really  start  with  just  a  handful 
 of  them  and  then  find  the  perfect  spot 
 for  them  and  they  will  just  kind  of  take 
 over  that  spot  they'll  give  that  little 
 area  tropical  feel  and  all  that  was  here 
 was  some  Boulders  we  have  plenty  of 
 Boulders  within  this  L  within  this  pond 
 so  I  kind  of  wanted  to  break  it  up  a 
 little  bit  and  these  guys  did  it  for  me 
 so  they're  the  perfect  addition  to  I 
 think  any  Garden  so  so  I  hope  this  guys 
 helps  and  um  if  you  have  any  other 
 questions  about  verm  milads  that  I  might 
 be  able  to  share  with  you  then  please  be 
 sure  to  put  it  in  the  comments  down 
 below  and  I  will  see  you  guys  in  the 
 very  next  video  please  like  And 
 subscribe  that  will  let  me  know  if  these 
 are  kind  of  the  helpful  tips  that  you 
 guys  look  for  in  your  gardening  videos 
 so  I  will  see  you  very  soon  take  take 
 care  see  you  in  the  next  video 
 [Music]

---

 I  love  that  this  is  a  self-cleaning  tree 
 anytime  it  decides  to  get  rid  of  a  frond 
 instead  of  it  turning  brown  and  just 
 hanging  on  the  tree  itself  it  will 
 release  and  drop  that 
 frond  so  hey  you  guys  good  morning  today 
 we  are  going  to  talk  about  my  favorite 
 palm  trees  so  I  thought  I'd  list  five  of 
 my  favorite  palm  trees  and  why  and  that 
 way  if  you  guys  are  looking  in  kind  of 
 creating  a  landscape  similar  to  a  lot  of 
 the  Landscapes  that  I  share  with  you 
 here  on  YouTube  then  you  know  a  little 
 bit  more  about  each  and  every  palm  tree 
 so  let's  get  started  so  today  I  am 
 standing  underneath  a  very  old  pigme  a 
 palm  in  so  many  of  my  videos  uh  you  guys 
 get  to  see  these  pigate  Palms  um  you 
 know  when  they're  newly  planted  and  when 
 um  you  know  just  maybe  a  year  or  two  in 
 but  this  guy  is  22  years  old  um  it  is 
 just  like  absolutely  stunning  it's  just 
 around  my  mailbox  so  I  have  to  keep  it 
 trimmed  up  so  that  way  we're  always  able 
 to  walk  underneath  of  it  but  overall 
 this  is  kind  of  the  coverage  that  um 
 they  offer  that  big  giant  canopy  head  I 
 mean  this  guy's  offering  about  I  would 
 say  overall  18  to  20  foot  of  width  of 
 coverage  above  me  which  is  so  fabulous 
 so  imagine  if  I'm  trying  to  block  out 
 something  like  a  screen  room  or  um  uh  a 
 big  roof  line  in  somebody  else's  house 
 it  does  such  a  fantastic  job  of  giving 
 me  that  width  and  that  dense  canopy 
 coverage  above  it  now  in  this  particular 
 case  like  I  mentioned  I  do  need  to  kind 
 of  leave  it  a  little  bit  open  under 
 underneath  of  me  so  that  way  the  mailman 
 you  know  is  still  our  friend  and  it's 
 not  mad  at  us  and  we  can  walk  underneath 
 of  it  to  collect  our  mail  every  single 
 day  so  was  it  the  ideal  choice  in 
 placement  probably  not  but  20  years  ago 
 I  you  know  I  can't  say  that  it  was  one 
 of  my  worst  mistakes  so  um  overall  I'm 
 very  very  happy  with  this  tree  it's  got 
 about  I  would  say  if  I  kept  it  trimmed 
 the  way  you're  supposed  to  it's  got 
 about  six  foot  of  of  openness  and  then 
 the  canopy  is  from  that  point  on  and 
 that's  kind  of  what  I  love  about  these 
 guys  so  imagine  some  of  the  Landscapes 
 that  I've  done  in  the  past  the  by  the 
 time  20  years  goes  by  the  fox  tails  or 
 the  coconut  palms  or  the  other  upper 
 canopy  Palms  are  going  to  be  you  know  30 
 foot  tall  and  then  you'll  have  these 
 guys  still  underneath  of  them  and  then 
 below  them  you'll  have  five  or  six  foot 
 of  something  like  the  Brazilian  Red 
 cloaks  like  I've  got  clustered  over 
 there  that'll  take  up  this  open 
 space  that  if  that's  what  you're  looking 
 for  to  tear  your  Landscaping  in  so  you 
 want  something  underneath  of  these  guys 
 that  are  going  to  fill  in  maybe 
 something  like  um  double  Peach  hibiscus 
 that's  going  to  be  six  foot  all  the  way 
 around  so  you've  got  these  blooms  wall 
 of  blooms  and  then  you  got  this  canopy 
 coverage  above  you  so  um  that's  what  I 
 love  about  palm  trees  I  hear  this  so 
 often  in  comments  that  palm  trees  only 
 give  you  coverage  for  so  long  and  that's 
 absolutely  true  you  know  you  got  to  work 
 with  what  Mother  Nature  gives  you  and 
 palm  trees  are  going  to  give  you 
 fantastic  coverage  like  these  pymet 
 eight  Palms  but  you  got  to  work  with 
 what's  underneath  so  maybe  you  start  in 
 the  beginning  with  something  cute  like 
 pentas  and  colorful  little  blooms  or 
 butterfly  plants  and  then  here  comes  my 
 mailman  this  is  just  perfect  timing  so  I 
 am  going  to  I'm  going  to  speed  this  up 
 so  um  but  yes  this  is  the  this  is  a  palm 
 tree  that  you  can  really  grow  with  with 
 plants  so  you  start  with  something  small 
 in  the  beginning  and  then  as  the  plant 
 or  the  tree  matures  then  you  go  in  with 
 something  bigger  kusia  Brazilian  Red 
 cloaks  double  Peach  hibiscus  uh  dwarf 
 fire  bush  anything  like  that  that's 
 going  to  take  five  or  six  foot  of 
 coverage  now  you've  got  something  to 
 really  layer  in  with  so  we're  going  to 
 go  right  now  to  the  very  next  tree  and 
 get  out  of  my  mailman's  way  see  you  a 
 sec  so  we  are  now  to  my  second  palm  of 
 the  day  and  this  is  not  I  don't  like  it 
 less  than  the  pygmy  I  don't  like  it  more 
 than  the  pygmy  I  cannot  really  choose 
 between  my  children  but  I  definitely 
 want  to  show  you  guys  my  top  top  top 
 five  and  fortunate  enough  my  top  five 
 are  in  my  garden  for  those  same  reasons 
 because  they're  my  favorites  but  number 
 two  is  the  fox  tail  Palm  love  love  love 
 love  the  fox  tail  Palms  I've  got  three 
 of  them  here  in  this  little  cluster 
 grouping  here  these  guys  are  self 
 cleaning  which  is  one  of  the  things  I 
 love  about  them  so  that  means  that  when 
 their  fronds  are  ready  to  drop  they  let 
 loose  right  at  the  core  and  they  drop 
 not  something  I've  got  to  pay  a  guy  to 
 come  and  trim  and  um  you  know  kind  of 
 maintain  them  in  that  way  they  do  such  a 
 nice  job  of  really  becoming  a  nice 
 self-cleaning  clean  looking  tree  I  also 
 like  the  substantial  of  it  I  love  their 
 trunk  I  love  how  they  become  columns  now 
 in  my  particular  case  they're  kind  of 
 anchoring  the  corner  of  my  yard  and  I 
 love  curved  trees  I  love  coconut  palms  I 
 love  love  that  natural  curved  look  to  a 
 tree  because  I  think  to  me  it  screams 
 tropical  so  I  found  some  beautiful  um 
 like  curved  trunk  fox  tail  palms  and 
 Randy  sexon  the  S  seon  are  my  friend  he 
 was  so  fast  he  just  so  so  wonderful  and 
 he's  like  I  I  don't  know  what  to  do  with 
 the  curved  trees  if  you  want  him  you  can 
 have  them  so  so  he  was  really  he  really 
 worked  out  a  good  a  good  deal  for  me  to 
 take  some  of  his  curved  palm  trees  and 
 I've  used  them  in  other  designs  I  think 
 they  look  fabulous  around  pools  I  don't 
 know  why  more  people  don't  use  curved 
 Fox  tailes  I  think  they  look  fantastic 
 but  obviously  I  love  them  so  much  I 
 brought  them  to  my  own  house  so  these 
 are  three  curved  uh  fox  tail  palms  and 
 they're  framing  a  centerpiece  Silver 
 Tree  I  love  the  contrast  of  all  of  this 
 Leaf  color  I  just  look  at  how  dark  and 
 deep  these  frond  canopies  are  then  you 
 got  the  silver  in  the  middle  and  then 
 you  got  the  light  kind  of  um  really 
 bright  kind  of  coloring  of  green  of  the 
 king  seos  I  just  I  that's  so  fun  about 
 palm  trees  is  you  can  have  so  many 
 different  greens  um  within  that  space 
 and  one  will  highlight  the  next  so  it 
 does  fox  tail  palms  are  always  going  to 
 be  up  there  with  my  favorite  so  as  far 
 as  the  growth  rate  they're  pretty 
 intermediate  so  they  grow  faster  than  a 
 pymet  eight  Palm  so  even  if  your  fox 
 tail  Palm  is  just  a  tad  bit  taller  when 
 you  put  it  in  and  you  put  a  pymet  eight 
 Palm  underneath  of  it  it  is  never  going 
 to  compete  together  so  that  fox  tail 
 Palm  will  always  outgrow  that  pigate 
 Palm  your  fox  tail  prom  will  go  all  the 
 way  between  27  to  30  foot  tall  so  it's 
 always  going  to  be  your  upper  canopy 
 unless  you  have  a  Royal  or  coconut  that 
 will  be  your  rear  canopy  of  those 
 because  those  will  grow  taller  all  the 
 way  into  the  40  and  50  range  so  um  so 
 your  fox  tail  Palm  is  overall  a 
 generally  a  large  palm  tree  in  your 
 plant  grouping  so  it's  usually  towards 
 the  rear  tier  of  your  garden  or  framing 
 something  um  and  then  the  growth  rate  on 
 that  is  you  know  it  it  averages  I  get 
 about  two  to  3  foot  a  year  on  average  of 
 those  now  I  fertilize  pretty  Reg  Al  so  I 
 know  that  helps  everything  out  and  my 
 soil  is  Sandy  if  you're  in  a  clay  based 
 soil  and  it  holds  a  little  bit  more 
 water  you're  going  to  get  one  foot  a 
 year  Max  of  growth  from  that  fox  tail 
 palm  and  um  fox  tail  palms  not  only  grow 
 taller  but  they  grow  chunkier  too  so  if 
 you're  looking  for  that  big  column  make 
 sure  when  you're  picking  out  a  tree  find 
 a  tree  that  has  a  nice  big  thick  trunk 
 to  it  and  um  it'll  be  even  more  gorgeous 
 as  it  grows  in  so  overall  fox  tail  palms 
 are  my  favorite  all  of  these  Palms  just 
 just  before  I  forget  to  mention  it  all 
 of  these  Palms  really  really  love  a  good 
 dose  of  8212  Palm  fertilizer  it's  my 
 favorite  Palm  fertilizer  to  use  I'll 
 link  my  favorite  down  below  um  also 
 there's  a  CH  chelated  um  micronutrient 
 mix  too  that's  fantastic  it's  a  it's  a 
 water  soluble  fertilizer  that  you  can  e 
 easy  easily  put  on  as  a  drench  or  you 
 can  spray  it  on  with  a  hose  and  it's 
 just  a  fantastic  one  too  and  I'll  also 
 put  that  in  the  link  down  below  but 
 those  two  products  really  help  keep  my 
 palm  frons  green  and  Lush  and  look  like 
 a  Fox's  tail  so  um  so  yeah  so  I  hope 
 that  helps  so  we're  going  to  go  on  to 
 number  three  of  my  favorite  palm  trees 
 which  is  not  too  far  so  we're  just  going 
 to  take  a  step  over  here  so  this  guy 
 right  here  this  bottle  Palm  I've  got 
 them  in  singles  I've  got  them  in  triples 
 I  had  one  in  a  double  unfortunately  um 
 we  had  to  move  it  so  it  was  near  our 
 septic  tank  didn't  realize  it  at  the 
 time  so  I  love  this  guy  he  is  right  near 
 my  walkway  which  um  my  husband  is  not  so 
 much  in  love  with  at  some  point  he  is 
 going  to  grow  up  and  over  that  walkway 
 so  those  limbs  will  not  be  in  the  way 
 but  I  do  not  mind  walking  around  the 
 limb  or  lifting  the  limb  as  I  walk 
 through  because  you  can't  interfere  with 
 the  beauty  of  the  tree  how  I  feel  that's 
 just  how  I  feel  so  um  this  is  a  triple 
 bottle  palm  and  you  can  imagine  I  mean 
 you  can  see  the  reason  why  they  call  it 
 a  bottle  P  the  base  of  the  tree  itself 
 has  a  beautiful  bulbous  kind  of  um  broad 
 base  and  as  I  mentioned  you  can  get  them 
 in  that  same  look  with  as  a  single  as  a 
 double  or  as  a  triple 
 if  I  found  a  quad  I  might  fall  over  and 
 and  have  to  get  it  but  I've  not  run 
 across  to  quad  yet  so  but  I  love  the  way 
 it  looks  what  I  really  really  enjoy 
 about  these  trees  is  it's  always  going 
 to  be  my  smaller  tree  of  variety  so  um 
 this  is  going  to  be  a  tree  that  I'm 
 going  to  layer  underneath  a  a  fox  tail 
 Palm  or  underneath  a  coconut  palm  it's 
 never  going  to  be  a  tree  that's  going  to 
 compete  with  any  of  my  taller  palm  trees 
 it's  going  to  give  me  that  squat  chunky 
 bit  of  Interest  this  is  a  palm  at  night 
 I  love  to  see  it  Glow  with  the  lights  on 
 it  because  it  has  like  a  sculptural  look 
 in  the  landscape  so  this  is  going  to  be 
 the  in  yourr  face  palm  the  Palm  that's 
 going  to  give  your  Landscaping  depth  and 
 then  your  next  layer  is  here  and  then  so 
 on  here  and  you  know  that's  what  brings 
 those  those  those  palm  tree  layers 
 together  but  this  is  a  fantastic  lower 
 um  intermediate  tree  the  only  kind  of 
 little  tree  that  you  might  put 
 underneath  of  it  is  well  technically  not 
 a  palm  but  like  a  king  SEO  or  something 
 like  that  you  can  put  underneath  of  this 
 palm  tree  and  it  won't  compete  with  it 
 but  overall  it's  probably  going  to  be 
 the  smallest  pal  in  your  garden  but  um 
 if  huh  like  the  baby  it's  the  baby  of 
 the  group  for  sure  and  so  we  treat  it 
 just  as  that  um  but  this  um  if  you'd 
 like  more  information  on  this  particular 
 Palm  so  I  don't  go  into  too  much  detail 
 is  um  I  do  have  a  plan  of  the  week  video 
 on  this  Palm  talking  about  the  growth 
 habits  the  fertilizer  habits  and  so  on 
 and  I  also  have  a  palm  fertilizer  video 
 coming  out  if  it's  not  come  out  yet  it 
 should  be  out  very  very  soon  talking 
 about  how  to  fertilize  your  palms  and 
 and  what  to  use  to  fertilize  them  so  um 
 that  way  you  can  keep  them  nice  and 
 happy  and  green  so  um  so  let's  go  to  the 
 very  next  palm  tree  all  right  so  here  we 
 are  at  our  very  next  palm  tree  and  this 
 is  a  common  one  you  guys  I  know  that 
 many  of  you  guys  have  had  this  palm  tree 
 and  you  love  it  or  you  hate  it  but  I'm 
 going  to  tell  you  why  I  love  it  it  is 
 the  triple  Christmas  Palm  I  love  it 
 another  selfcleaning  Palm  another  fast 
 growing  Palm  however  it  is  a  great 
 intermediate  Palm  so  if  you  notice  palm 
 trees  have  a  purpose  for  me  they  um  not 
 only  give  you  that  beautiful  look  but 
 I'm  usually  trying  to  kind  of  give  a 
 little  bit  of  coverage  somewhere  so  um 
 this  palm  tree  is  doing  just  that  um 
 it's  kind  of  giving  me  some  intermediate 
 coverage  if  you're  looking  from  the 
 street  you'll  notice  my  coconut  palm 
 still  tear  above  this  tree  so  um  layers 
 are  obviously  one  of  my  things  but  I 
 love  that  this  is  a  self-cleaning  tree 
 so  anytime  it  decides  to  get  rid  of  a 
 frond  instead  of  it  turning  brown  and 
 just  hanging  on  the  tree  itself  it  will 
 release  and  drop  that  FR  so  it's 
 fantastic  for  that  overall  the  height  on 
 this  guy  is  about  um  not  this  particular 
 guy  but  overall  the  matured  height  on 
 these  guys  are  going  to  be  16  to  18t 
 tall  so  that  makes  it  perfect  for  um 
 becoming  an  intermediate  tree  you  can 
 still  put  a  a  bottle  Palm  underneath  of 
 this  tree  you  can  put  a  pyate  palm  on  on 
 the  corners  of  this  tree  and  create  a 
 nice  thick  canopy  because  what  I'll 
 happen  is  you've  got  this  openness  to 
 the  trunk  and  although  I  don't  mind  the 
 openness  to  the  trunk  I  do  have  a  tenden 
 to  want  to  either  put  something  to  the 
 back  of  it  or  something  chunked  around 
 it  to  kind  of  soften  that  so  and  because 
 it's  my  front  yard  and  I  don't  need 
 those  heavy  layers  I  did  only  put  a 
 couple  clusters  so  I've  got  the  kusia  as 
 a  nice  six-  foot  now  maybe  touching  7 
 foot  backdrop  and  then  I've  got  the  pin 
 wheel  Jasmine  kind  of  clustering  around 
 it  to  kind  of  give  us  just  a  little  bit 
 of  underplanting  softness  um  and  then  of 
 course  the  the  little  Ruby  Reds  I  just 
 love  them  I  just  think  they  just  for  a 
 nice  bit  of  dark  depth  to  a  garden  so 
 you  know  I  like  a  tree  that  gives  me  a 
 little  bit  of  room  so  I  have  room  to 
 layer  and  and  these  guys  do  just  that  so 
 now  you  can  pair  this  again  with  a  fox 
 tail  palm  and  the  fox  tail  Palm's  going 
 to  outgrow  this  so  if  you  said  for 
 instance  you  wanted  to  do  a  centerpiece 
 or  you  wanted  to  to  kind  of  combine  this 
 tree  grouping  together  you  could  put 
 this  tree  as  your  centerpiece  tree  you 
 could  put  a  fox  tail  to  the  right  a 
 single  fox  tail  to  the  right  a  single 
 fox  tail  to  the  left  two  pigate  Palms  to 
 the  left  and  right  of  this  tree  that's 
 closer  together  then  you  could  center  it 
 with  a  triple  bottle  Palm  in  the  middle 
 and  voila  you  have  a  grouping  of 
 beautiful  Palms  that  are  easy  to  care 
 for  and  really  really  can  play  well 
 together  because  the  layers  will  all 
 work  and  grow  in  unison  together  so 
 you're  not  fighting  each  plant  or  tree 
 um  of  heights  you  know  so  okay  so  let's 
 go  into  the  next  Palm  grouping  and  I  did 
 say  the  best  for  last  so  hello  way  up 
 there  so  we  are  off  to  our  last  tree  of 
 choice  and  it  is  the  triangle  fan  palm  I 
 know  I  know  you  guys  are  so  shocked  it's 
 a  big  shocker  but  yes  if  you  follow  this 
 channel  you  know  I  love  the  triangle  fan 
 palm  it  is  not  a  self-cleaning  Palm  but 
 it  is  absolutely  beautiful  in  its  own 
 right  and  it's  one  of  those  trees  that 
 you  can  really  layer  on  top  of  like 
 you're  just  about  to  see  above  me  here 
 um  this  tree  is  a  tree  that  you  can  um 
 really  kind  of  put  something  chunky  and 
 full  in  front  of  and  it's  almost  like  a 
 backdrop  tree  so  not  only  does  it  give 
 you  a  variation  and  it's  like  a  light 
 light  either  green  coloration  or  silver 
 coloration  a  type  it's  depending  on  the 
 the  color  that  you  choose  when  they're 
 young  but  you're  going  to  get  a  nice 
 variation  or  pop  of  um  of  palm  tree 
 color  in  um  in  your  landscape  that's 
 what  I  love  about  palm  trees  they  come 
 in  all  shapes  and  sizes  so  you're  going 
 to  get  um  you're  going  to  get  a  fun  tree 
 to  work  with  so  I  if  you  back  up  Bryce 
 you  can  kind  of  get  a  good  general  idea 
 of  what  this  guy  looks  like  in  the 
 background  so  this  is  a  triangle  fan  pal 
 collection  that  we  have  had  for  years 
 and  years  and  years  and  years  and  it  is 
 really  just  grown  into  a  beautiful 
 backdrop  we  put  three  young  triangle 
 Palms  back  here  and  now  they  are  a 
 staple  of  our  landscape  and  our  backyard 
 they  are  the  light  coloring  trees 
 amongst  all  of  the  dark  greens  so  um  I 
 think  they're  just  an  ideal  Palm  to  work 
 with  down  below  here  right  next  to  me  I 
 have  a  triple  Spindle  Palm  right 
 directly  in  front  of  it  now  this  is  a 
 chunky  palm  tree  just  like  a  bottle  Palm 
 is  it  just  a  little  bit  taller  so  it's 
 going  to  do  a  really  nice  job  of  kind  of 
 giving  us  a  little  bit  of  buffering  from 
 the  actual  trunk  of  the  triangle  Palm 
 because  the  triangle  Palm  trunk  is 
 nothing  to  you  know  nothing  to  write 
 home  about  it's  just  a  trunk  of  a  tree 
 the  real  beauty  is  above  that  so  I  love 
 putting  a  tree  that  does  have  more  Fage 
 more  girth  more  interest  just  down  below 
 in  front  of  that  and  if  you  look  at  the 
 spacing  between  the  two  trees  it's 
 probably  like  3  foot  so  there's  there's 
 not  much  spacing  below  but  um  so  one's 
 planted  right  in  front  of  the  other  I 
 wanted  a  tree  that  was  really  going  to 
 overshadow  my  water  feature  and  that's 
 what  this  Spindle  Palm  does  um  and  I 
 think  it  just  a  the  perfect  neighboring 
 Palm  for  my  triangle  fan  palm  now 
 triangle  palms  grow  very  slow  so  you  get 
 about  a  foot  to  a  foot  and  a  half  a  year 
 from  them  um  as  as  far  as  sandy  soil 
 goes  they're  going  to  grow  a  little 
 slower  in  um  more  moist  clay  kind  of 
 soils  but  overall  they  are  a  slow 
 growing  Palm  what  they  do  do  is  they  um 
 offer  you  more  of  a  a  wide  expanse  kind 
 of  like  like  they  sound  like  a  fan  to 
 the  front  of  them  and  they  they  offer 
 more  of  a  short  trunk  so  as  old  as  this 
 tree  is  it  probably  only  has  about  six 
 foot  of  trunk  which  If  This  Were  A 
 foxtail  Palm  it  would  have  14  15  16  foot 
 of  trunk  and  so  you  get  a  lot  of  tree 
 for  the  money  with  this  so  you  can  put 
 this  near  a  fox  tail  palm  and  the  fox 
 tail  Palm  would  be  over  it  and  the 
 triangle  Palm  would  be  to  the  front  of 
 it  and  it's  kind  of  nice  a  nice  kind  of 
 Ideal  um  intermediate  tree  so  and  I  know 
 that  sounds  like  gosh  you  know  this  is  a 
 pretty  good  sized  tree  but  this  tree  has 
 been  in  the  ground  for  20  years  and  it's 
 really  it's  really  taken  off  and  really 
 just  just  done  what  it's  meant  to  do  and 
 it's  been  a  perfect  Staple  in  this 
 Garden  so  I  use  triangle  fan  Palms  as  a 
 centerpiece  tree  all  the  time  in  my 
 landscape  so  don't  be  afraid  to  give 
 that  tree  a  try  all  right  you  guys  that 
 ends  my  favorite  five  Palm  series  I  do 
 have  a  book  coming  out  that  Bryce  and  I 
 are  writing  together  as  a  joint  project 
 it  is  50  of  my  favorite  plants  and  trees 
 it's  going  to  list  of  course  some  of 
 these  plants  and  trees  that  we're 
 talking  about  every  single  week  on  this 
 channel  and  it's  going  to  give  you  all 
 the  details  about  um  everything  that  I 
 know  of  about  those  plants  and  trees  um 
 through  all  of  my  experience  of  being  in 
 this  business  for  a  little  over  25  years 
 personal  opinions  and  of  course  it's 
 going  to  list  my  personal  opinions 
 because  you  know  I  you  know  I  don't  mind 
 sharing  my  thoughts  on  everything  that  I 
 do  I  love  plants  and  trees  I  can 
 literally  talk  about  them  for  all  day 
 Bryce  is  editing  it  so  he's  conis  the 
 personal  opinions  to  a  few  paragraphs  so 
 don't  worry  it's  not  that  long  of  a  book 
 but  overall  you're  going  to  see 
 beautiful  pictures  of  the  plants  the 
 trees  details  about  them  what  to  use  for 
 fertilization  what  to  use  for  care 
 guides  what  to  look  out  for  as  far  as 
 weaknesses  end  strings  so  um  and  then 
 all  and  we're  also  going  to  have  a 
 companion  list  so  each  plant  and  tree 
 will  have  a  grouping  of  companion  plants 
 that  really  work  well  together  so  that 
 way  you  guys  get  like  the  the  whole 
 shebang  about  the  plant  that  way  if 
 you're  new  to  Florida  I  want  you  to 
 almost  be  able  to  take  that  guide  and 
 say  okay  I  like  this  this  and  this  and 
 these  will  all  work  together  and  this  is 
 how  I  can  start  my  garden  so  it  is  a 
 complete  DIY  packed  book  um  which  I 
 think  you  guys  will  really  find 
 interesting  if  you  enjoy  this  channel  so 
 check  it  out  I  will  be  sure  to  put  a 
 link  well  maybe  not  me  because  you  guys 
 actually  want  the  link  to  work  Bryce 
 will  put  a  link  down  below  that  will  um 
 take  you  right  to  that  book  as  soon  as 
 it's  ready  and  uh  I  just  can't  wait  to 
 hear  your  comments  and  thoughts  on  it  so 
 thank  you  true  Gardener  so  very  much  I 
 will  see  you  guys  in  the  very  next  video 
 please  don't  forget  to  like  And 
 subscribe  if  this  is  the  kind  of  thing 
 that  you  like  if  you  like  more  helpful 
 tips  on  plants  and  trees  then  I  will  see 
 you  in  the  very  next  video  take  care 
 [Music]

---

 the  great  thing  about  these  this 
 particular  type  of  plant  grouping  is 
 that  in  in  a  matter  of  two  months 
 everything  will  be  full  and  Lush  and 
 thick  so  hello  gardeners  if  you  guys  are 
 looking  to  create  a  private  Oasis  in 
 your  backyard  or  a  little  bit  of 
 seclusion  from  those  neighbors  then 
 stick  around  because  this  video  is  just 
 for  you  I'm  going  to  go  over  five  of  my 
 favorite  um  tropical  plants  and  trees 
 that  are  going  to  offer  a  big  impact  of 
 coverage  create  that  perfect  buffer  for 
 your  backyard  space  do  it  pretty  quickly 
 and  then  I'm  going  to  share  with  you 
 kind  of  how  everything  is  going  to  grow 
 in  and  really  create  that  tropical 
 jungle  feel  I  am  in  rockage  Florida 
 today  we  just  finished  a  project  for  my 
 friends  uh  Lisa  and  Mark  and  their 
 backyard  space  was  uh  it  was  a  it  was  it 
 was  a  little  tough  it  you  know  it  was 
 one  of  those  spots  that  um  the  house 
 that's  quite  a  bit  higher  than  the 
 backyard  so  they  kind  of  really  felt 
 like  their  back  patio  was  pretty  much  a 
 fish  bowl  it  looked  back  out  to  all  the 
 roof  lines  all  the  other  backyards  and 
 it  was  just  not  at  all  what  they  were 
 wanting  to  see  as  they  enjoyed  their 
 outdoor  space  so  they  found  us  on 
 YouTube  and  um  called  me  in  and  said 
 could  you  please  do  something  in  my 
 backyard  space  create  some  privacy 
 create  create  some  a  tropical  space  that 
 we're  really  going  to  enjoy  and  one  that 
 we  can  build  upon  so  I  thought  this 
 might  be  a  really  great  um  great  video 
 to  bring  you  guys  in  on  because  of  the 
 leg  Logistics  of  the  space  that  we  had 
 to  work  with  a  lot  of  this  material  was 
 brought  in  at  a  fairly  young  size  so  a 
 lot  of  my  projects  they're  they're  quite 
 large  the  the  the  the  plants  the  trees 
 everything  is  pretty  substantial  it  took 
 machines  to  get  it  in  here  but  for  a  lot 
 of  you  di  wires  out  there  I  thought  this 
 video  just  might  be  for  you  because  the 
 collection  of  plants  and  trees  that  we 
 have  in  here  90%  of  them  were  um  30 
 gallon  25  gallon  7  Gall  3  gallon  all 
 siiz  plants  so  this  is  definitely  a 
 project  that  um  that  you  could  tackle 
 and  kind  of  create  um  that  uh  that 
 secluded  area  that  little  Nook  that 
 you're  looking  for  in  your  own  space  so 
 I  thought  this  video  might  just  be  a  a 
 good  timely  video  especially  because  we 
 just  dealt  with  Milton  um  a  lot  of  us 
 have  some  areas  that  we  have  to  redo  um 
 maybe  some  areas  that  uh  we  lost  some 
 coverage  on  so  I  thought  I  would 
 introduce  some  of  my  favorite  tried  and 
 true  tropical  plants  and  trees  that 
 we're  going  to  that's  going  to  do  the 
 trick  pretty  pretty  quickly  so  um  so  I'm 
 going  to  walk  you  through  those  and  then 
 hopes  that  this  might  help  encourage  you 
 or  inspire  you  guys  to  get  back  out  in 
 the  garden  and  um  and  I  know  sometimes 
 restart  um  and  create  your  outdoor  space 
 but  you  know  we  we  live  in  Florida  and 
 we  have  the  the  you  know  the  pluses  and 
 minuses  of  that  but  that  also  means  that 
 we  get  the  enjoyment  of  living  Outdoors 
 um  I  know  that  Mark  and  Lisa  they  feel 
 like  they've  really  um  they've  really 
 doubled  the  size  of  their  their  living 
 space  by  creating  this  outdoor  buffer 
 now  they  can  can  really  enjoy  that  patio 
 really  enjoy  the  backyard  they  don't 
 feel  like  they  have  to  be  quiet  because 
 the  neighbors  are  over  there  you  know  or 
 they're  not  looking  directly  into 
 Windows  or  or  things  along  those  lines 
 is  it  going  to  take  a  little  while  for 
 all  of  this  material  going  to  to  grow  in 
 and  create  that  buffer  feel  it  it's 
 going  to  take  about  a  year  for  them  to 
 really  see  that  full  layer  of  coverage 
 but  they  are  off  to  a  really  good  start 
 so  I  thought  gosh  let  me  take  you  guys 
 along  with  me  share  with  you  the  trees 
 share  with  you  what  they're  going  to  do 
 in  hopes  that  this  might  be  something 
 that  that  you  can  you  can  recreate  in 
 your  space  um  it  might  give  you  a  good 
 shopping  list  I'll  tell  you  as  much 
 information  as  I  can  as  well  as  putting 
 the  zones  down  below  at  the  bottom  so 
 that  way  you  guys  can  can  determine  if 
 this  is  going  to  fit  into  your  space 
 I'll  discuss  sh  Sun  I'll  discuss  shade 
 areas  um  I'll  I'll  talk  about  cold 
 tolerance  wind  tolerance  and  definitely 
 very  very  windy  today  so  um  these  plants 
 and  trees  can  really  hack  it  um  all 
 right  you  guys  I'm  going  to  turn  this 
 camera  around  because  I've  already 
 gotten  off  topic  and  I  am  going  to  share 
 with  you  those  five  favorites  this  is 
 less  of  a  garden  tour  and  more  of  create 
 your  own  private  space  tour  use  these 
 plants  and  trees  if  this  is  a  look  that 
 you  like  to  recreate  those  those  little 
 nooks  those  little  spaces  that  you  might 
 need  some  coverage  uh  for  so  um  without 
 further  Ado  we're  going  to  start  I'm 
 going  to  flip  you  around  and  we'll  uh 
 we'll  look  at  the  first  plant  and  tree 
 okay  you  guys  so  I  will  start  with 
 giving  you  a  quick  sweep  of  this  this 
 backyard  space  here  so  as  you  can  see 
 this  is  on  a  pretty  severe  slope  the 
 patio  area  sets  up  nice  and  High  um  and 
 then  I'll  slide  in  a  before  picture  so 
 you  get  a  chance  to  see  what  it  looked 
 like  and  what  you  looked  out  to  uh  prior 
 to  the  Landscaping  so  these  layers  are 
 going  to  come  in  really  nice  and  full  to 
 really  give  them  that  that  secluded 
 space  that  they're  that  they're  looking 
 for  first  tree  in  our  list  which  is  the 
 fishtail  pond  Ms  these  guys  do  a 
 fantastic  job  of  instantaneous  screening 
 I  mean  their  density  is  pretty  amazing  I 
 love  what  they  offer  I  don't  know  if  you 
 guys  can  hear  that  cuz  I  have  the 
 microphone  on  but  um  they  can  all  that 
 that  kind  of  movement  of  those  little 
 fishtail  leaves  that  offer  such  a  nice 
 bit  of  sound  as  the  wind  blows  I  just 
 absolutely  love  what  they  do  not  only 
 give  you  coverage  with  their  thickness 
 and  their  denseness  but  they  kind  of 
 give  you  that  kind  of  consistent  little 
 bit  of  white  noise  um  almost  as  they  uh 
 they  give  you  a  little  bit  of  that  that 
 that  clapping  of  the  of  the  leaves  but  I 
 just  think  they're  so  fabulous  now  these 
 guys  that  we  brought  in  are  30  gallon 
 size  they're  running  about  about  8T  tall 
 now  you  can  easily  pick  these  up  at  15 
 gallon  size  they're  about  5T  tall  and 
 about  half  as  wide  way  easier  to 
 maneuver  around  but  our  guys  did  bring 
 these  back  two  guys  and  a  tree  Dolly  and 
 um  it  you  know  it  took  maneuvering 
 because  they're  bulky  at  this  size 
 however  they  grow  super  fast 
 approximately  3ot  a  year  and  will  grow 
 all  the  way  up  to  25t  tall  one  thing  I 
 really  do  like  about  these  is  see  how 
 narrow  we  don't  have  a  lot  of  room  to 
 work  with  at  the  bottom  and  Mark  can 
 actually  trim  whatever  trunks  he  can 
 select  whatever  trunks  he  wants  to  trim 
 to  keep  that  real  Compact  and  narrow  at 
 the  base  or  he  can  let  that  fill  that 
 under  canopy  to  really  create  more  of  a 
 dense  barrier  of  sound  so  there's  really 
 you  can  really  do  a  lot  with  a  clumping 
 palm  because  you  can  pretty  much  it's 
 almost  think  of  it  like  a  bouquet  you 
 can  keep  the  bottom  tethered  together 
 really  nice  and  tight  and  let  the  tops 
 open  up  and  fan  out  to  give  you  that 
 coverage  you're  looking  for  and  when 
 that  gets  about  20  25t  tall  that's  going 
 to  create  a  beautiful  dense  wall  so  tree 
 number  two  is  the  coconut  palm  now  this 
 guy  is  also  a  30  gallon  it's  about  14t 
 tall  you  get  a  lot  of  size  with  this 
 tree  a  lot  for  the  money  with  this  tree 
 which  I  absolutely  love  he's  going  to 
 open  up  and  become  a  beautiful  wide 
 canopy  um  now  these  trees  grow 
 exceptionally  fast  so  that  can  be  a  plus 
 or  a  minus  for  for  those  of  you  guys  in 
 this  particular  case  we  have  it's  kind 
 of  hard  to  see  cuz  maybe  I'll  slide  in 
 the  before  picture  but  you  can  see  four 
 roof  lines  back  here  and  I  really  wanted 
 this  tree  to  kind  of  come  over  and  go 
 from  corner  of  the  fence  to  you  know 
 corner  of  the  fence  so  I  kind  of  wanted 
 it  to  really  really  widen  out  become  the 
 big  focal  point  and  take  up  the  whole 
 corner  of  this  garden  and  it's 
 absolutely  going  to  do  that  a  coconut 
 palm  will  get  all  the  way  up  to  30  foot 
 wide  if  you  let  it  I  mean  it  really  does 
 become  a  nice  broad  wide  canopy  which  is 
 fantastic  for  a  feature  tree  however 
 when  that  happens  you  kind  of  have  a 
 bean  bean  pole  kind  of  look  at  the 
 bottom  you  know  the  bottom  8  to  10  feet 
 or  so  depending  on  how  tall  the  tree  is 
 is  going  to  have  be  nothing  but  stock  so 
 that's  the  reason  why  we  brought  in 
 plant  number  three  on  the  list  these  are 
 Brazilian  Red  cloaks  so  these  guys  went 
 through  hurricane  Milton  just  a  few  days 
 ago  so  we've  got  some  lost  leaves  on 
 them  they're  a  little  bit  wind  burnt  but 
 they're  going  to  pop  right  back  they've 
 been  fertilized  and  treated  and  they're 
 going  to  really  be  a  nice  Lush  grouping 
 underneath  that  tree  and  because 
 Brazilian  Red  cloaks  like  to  be  anywhere 
 between  8  to  12T  tall  it's  going  to  grow 
 as  an  understory  plant  to  that  coconut 
 palm  so  that  coconut  palm  is  going  to 
 give  you  all  that  upper  coverage  making 
 all  of  those  roof  lines  just  completely 
 disappear  and  then  at  the  bottom  you're 
 going  to  have  green  8ft  Walls  here  with 
 big  big  bright  burgundy  pinkish  um 
 coloring  on  the  blooms  I'll  slide  in  a 
 picture  of  what  mine  look  like  I  have  a 
 grouping  of  four  about  the  same  size 
 when  I  planted  them  um  on  the  corner  of 
 my  front  yard  and  you  got  guys  every 
 time  I  come  home  that  is  the  very  first 
 thing  I  see  as  I'm  coming  down  the  road 
 they're  just  Lush  they're  blooming 
 they're  gorgeous  they're  a  thick  dense 
 impact  and  they  completely  consume  the 
 corner  of  my  front  entrance  so  I  love 
 putting  them  in  corner  plantings  where 
 we  can  let  them  do  what  they're  meant  to 
 do  and  these  are  going  to  do  just  that 
 they  are  going  to  open  up  and  become 
 just  that  understory  planting  for  that 
 tree  so  you  go  right  from  that  big  giant 
 canopy  of  that  tree  to  a  clustering  of 
 green  and  color  down  below  so  Brazilian 
 Red  cloaks  they  are  fabulous  for  an 
 understory  planting  the  only  negative 
 that  I  run  across  with  those  guys  is 
 they  have  big  leaves  and  anything  with 
 big  leaves  in  Florida  you  do  have  to 
 kind  of  keep  on  it  with  pesticide 
 treatments  so  you  definitely  want  to  you 
 know  hit  it  hit  it  with  a  pesticide  a 
 couple  times  a  year  and  make  sure  that 
 you  know  you're  you're  nice  and  clean  so 
 you  kind  of  kind  of  keep  a  lookout  for 
 for  bugs  in  the  garden  when  um  when  that 
 happens  they  like  full  sun  to  partial 
 shade  um  they  can  handle  more  shade  but 
 they  do  bloom  a  good  deal  more  when  they 
 have  more  sun  they're  going  to  be 
 perfect  for  an  understory  planting  cuz 
 this  tree  is  going  to  offer  just  the 
 right  amount  of  shade  for  them  to  really 
 flush  out  and  become  gorgeous  all  the 
 way  through  and  they  will  become  that 
 wall  I  put  them  in  lowline  areas  I  have 
 them  on  both  sides  of  the  garden  I  have 
 them  in  that  low  spot  over  there  on  the 
 opposite  corner  they're  really  going  to 
 completely  engulf  that  corner  the  same 
 way  but  you  kind  of  see  I  have  them  in 
 low  areas  of  the  garden  so  that  way  they 
 can  really  um  soak  up  that  excess  water 
 um  these  plants  are  just  like  your 
 typical  Tropicals  they  like  watering 
 after  establishment  about  three  times  a 
 a  week  and  um  and  they  go  all  the  way  up 
 to  four  times  a  week  but  they  really  do 
 do  not  mind  having  a  little  bit  of  wet 
 feet  they  like  good  draining  soil  but 
 they  do  like  wet  feet  they  can  be 
 fertilized  with  bgi  buganvilla 
 fertilizer  um  about  four  times  a  year 
 and  be  super  super  happy  and  they'll 
 bloom  all  year  long  even  in  the  winter 
 so  that  is  plant  number  three  tree 
 number  four  which  is  probably  a  big 
 shocker  to  so  many  of  you  guys  is  the 
 fox  tail  Palm  now  foxtail  Palms  are 
 notorious  for  having  big  fuzzy  gorgeous 
 fox  tail  type  of  leaves  and  this  triple 
 right  here  as  the  centerpiece  really 
 does  the  job  of  kind  of  giving  us  a  nice 
 bit  of  impact  now  this  tree  is  still 
 tall  and  slender  it  has  a  nice  uniformed 
 canopy  at  the  top  but  um  oh  my  goodness 
 as  it  grows  in  those  trunks  that  you  see 
 there  are  going  to  widen  out  and  then 
 that  canopy  is  going  to  not  double  in 
 size  but  goodness  you're  you're  going  to 
 get  a  great  deal  of  width  for  one  tree 
 and  I  love  the  way  triples  really  do 
 I've  got  a  couple  small  singles  that  we 
 have  on  either 
 side  that  are  offering  a  little  bit  of 
 kind  of  almost  like  a  soldier  kind  of 
 palm  w  we've  got  a  big  chunky  one  in  the 
 middle  some  cute  triple  bottle  Palms 
 that  are  just 
 stunners  flanking  each  side  and  of 
 course  my  famous  aavees  you  guys  but 
 again  I'm  getting  off  topic  I  absolutely 
 love  this  design  I  think  it  turned  out 
 so  gorgeous  I  cannot  wait  to  see  it  in  6 
 months  but  right  now  we're  talking  about 
 coverage  now  Fox  taale  Palms  they  will 
 grow  all  the  way  to  30  ft  tall  so  when 
 that  does  happen  you  want  to  make  sure 
 that  you  pick  an  understory  plant 
 grouping  that  is  is  going  to  offer  color 
 and  thickness  at  the  bottom  so  that  way 
 it  does  a  good  job  of  covering  those  big 
 Trunks  and  that  way  you  go  right  from 
 this  big  canopy  of  frond  down  to  color 
 down  to  the  next  layer  of  color  and  the 
 next  layer  of  color  and  that's  kind  of 
 what  creates  that  tropical  feel  that 
 tropical  garden  that  you  that  you  when 
 you  pull  it  together  and  you  know  I  just 
 kind  of  want  to  share  I  don't  know  if  I 
 can  I  can  this  will  come  off  in  camera 
 because  it  is  a  late  in  the  day  and  a 
 very  windy  day  but  just  look  at  this 
 combination  of  plant  groupings  we've  got 
 the  fox  tail  Palm  here  flanked  on  along 
 the  backside  with  two  fishtail  Palms 
 that  are  going  to  give  my  clients  such 
 coverage  from  the  house  behind  them  and 
 then  when  these  red  copper  leaves  down 
 below  really  get  some  size  to  them 
 they're  going  to  be  8T  underneath  it's 
 that  red  little  grouping  that  you  see 
 there  I  wish  I  had  brace  here  so  I  could 
 I  could  show  you  guys  better  but  that 
 little  red  combination  of  red  copper 
 leaf  um  it's  really  going  to  do  a 
 fantastic  job  of  becoming  nothing  but  a 
 dark  sense  of  red  in  there  um  it's  going 
 to  really  help  soften  that  white  fence 
 and  then  you  go  down  to  the  fal  sagave 
 some  bright  colorings  of  the  golden  Dew 
 and  the  Carissa  boxwood  and  then  the  two 
 front  feature  trees  are  these  gorgeous 
 triple  bottle  Pals  and  you  kind  of  see 
 how  the  layering  is  already  starting  to 
 take  hold  just  this  combination  of  plant 
 grouping  is  going  to  offer  a  nice  dense 
 bit  of  coverage  right  off  the  bat  so 
 this  is  something  that  I  would  rinse  and 
 repeat  in  several  different  Gardens  just 
 to  kind  of  give  us  that  same  kind  of 
 layering  look  and  the  knowing  that 
 that's  going  to  offer  coverage  now  when 
 we're  talking  about  future  growth  and 
 that  Foxdale  Palm  is  now  you  know  25t 
 tall  the  red  copper  leaves  at  the  bottom 
 will  be  you  know  6  to  8T  tall  depending 
 on  how  Mark  and  Lisa  would  like  to  to 
 maintain  them  at  but  um  a  nice  6ft 
 barrier  that's  almost  the  entire  trunk 
 and  then  you've  got  the  canopy  all  the 
 way  above  that  and  then  the  backdrops  of 
 the  20ft  to  25  ft  um  fishtail  palms  and 
 then  pulled  forward  are  these  two  single 
 fox  tail  palms  and  then  dropped  down  to 
 these  triple  bottle  Palms  which  at  that 
 time  will  be  I  would  say  close  to  10t 
 wide  by  the  they  get  12  to  14  that's 
 about  as  tall  as  I've  seen  them  get  so 
 but  when  they're  14t  they'll  almost  be 
 touching  from  fron  to  frond  which  will 
 be  a  fantastic  Halo  for  that  fals  Agave 
 because  at  that  point  that  fals  Agave 
 will  be  almost  6  fo  tall  so  you  can 
 really  see  how  this  Garden  is  going  to 
 come  together  and  one  layer  on  top  of 
 the  next  layer  now  my  clients  were  super 
 patient  on  the  plants  we  all  know  that 
 we're  we're  dealing  with  an  after  storm 
 matth  so  there's  going  to  be  you  know 
 some  leaning  plants  and  there's  going  to 
 be  not  everything's  going  to  be  full  and 
 Lush  like  I  always  love  the  great  thing 
 about  these  this  particular  type  of 
 plant  grouping  is  that  in  in  a  matter  of 
 two  months  everything  will  be  full  and 
 Lush  and  thick  and  they'll  really  get  a 
 chance  to  see  how  that  all  just  thickens 
 and  comes  together  but  they're  just  like 
 me  they  don't  want  to  wait  they  they 
 wanted  to  move  forward  so  and  I'm  so 
 glad  they  did  because  I  really  do  think 
 that  this  G  is  going  to  come  to  life  and 
 give  them  exactly  what  they're  looking 
 for  as  far  as  that  tropical  seclusion  so 
 just  a  recap  tree  number  one  is  going  to 
 be  the  fishtail 
 Palms  tree  number  two  is  going  to  be  the 
 coconut  palms  and  just  what  they  offer 
 as  far  as  their  upper  canopy  coverage 
 it's  going  to  be  like  the  Halo  of  the 
 garden  and  that's  what  makes  them 
 perfect  for  the  corners  or  the  edges  of 
 a  garden  because  it  really  gives  them  it 
 anchors  a  space  together  together  next 
 would  be  the  fox  tail  palms  triples 
 doubles  singles  you  know  you  just  can't 
 go  wrong  with  foxtail  Palms  they  just  do 
 such  a  nice  job  of  giving  you  a  dense 
 canopy  and  then  when  you're  planting 
 these  big  trees  make  sure  that  you're 
 working  with  plants  below  them  that  are 
 going  to  fill  up  those  trunks  that's 
 going  to  give  them  a  great  skirt  last 
 plant  of  our  grouping  Louisiana  red 
 copper  leaes  and  these  Louisiana  red 
 copper  leafes  again  you  guys  are  a 
 little  burnt  from  the  storm  but  you  kind 
 of  see  what  variation  color  they're 
 going  to  offer  they're  just  going  to  be 
 stunning  the  ones  that  are  just  down 
 below  those  are  the  Autumn  flares  they 
 have  a  little  bit  more  variation  in 
 color  I  like  to  pair  them  together  so 
 I've  got  the  Reds  in  the  back  and  just  a 
 little  dash  of  those  to  the  front  they 
 grow  the  same  the  same  rate  um  so  they 
 really  do  grow  well  with  the  Louisiana 
 Reds  and  that's  when  our  small  stuff 
 comes  into  play  so  I  hope  this  Garden 
 gave  you  guys  some  inspiration  on  a  few 
 plants  and  trees  that  are  tried  and  true 
 and  tough  and  can  really  handle  our 
 environment  I  hope  it's  something  that 
 you  can  add  to  your  list  and 
 reincorporate  into  your  outdoor  space 
 because  I  it's  funny  I  was  talking  to  my 
 my  customers  inside  and  I  was  sharing 
 with  them  that  this  patio  space  should 
 be  that  perfect  spot  in  your  garden  it 
 should  be  that  spot  that  you  come  out 
 and  you  have  your  glass  of  wine  or  your 
 cup  of  coffee  it's  got  this  huge  slope 
 and  and  then  all  you  see  is  neighbors 
 and  so  that's  totally  different  than 
 being  on  a  lake  so  I  started  searching 
 on  the  internet  and  I  looked  at  people's 
 pictures  and  I  went  through  about  30 
 different  landscap  and  nothing  caught  my 
 eye  and  then  I  found  one  of  your  videos 
 and  I 
 go  and  he  goes  she's  never  going  to  come 
 to  the  house  you're  never  even  going  to 
 see  her  you'll  hire  the  landscape 
 company  and  that'll  be  it  and  that  is 
 not  true  that  was  true  YouTube  kind  of 
 pulled  us  together  then  you  pretty  much 
 saw  the  videos  and  it  was  just  a  style 
 that  you  guys  liked  and  and  we  you  know 
 we  just  kind  of  meshed  after  that  is 
 that  generally  kind  of  what  happened 
 Prett  much  how  it  went  down  right  I 
 think  it's  also  when  you're  looking  at 
 her  videos  find  plant  you  like  so  I 
 think  that  helped  cuz  we  went  through 
 all  the  different  plants  we  asked  me 
 things  we  liked  what  we  didn't  like  and 
 if  you  kind  of  have  an  idea  it  helps  you 
 I  think  ABS  it  absolutely  does  because 
 it  gives  me  an  idea  of  your  style  and 
 you  guys  Lisa  she  was  super  prepared  I 
 mean  we  had  a  long  list  by  the  time  we 
 were  done  of  likes  and  dislikes  and  that 
 was  it  was  huge  Because  by  the  end  of 
 our  conversation  I  felt  like  I  really  I 
 really  knew  and  understood  her  style  and 
 it  was  able  to  really  create  a  design 
 that  I  felt  like  when  I  came  back 
 they're  like  yes  on  point  that's  exactly 
 what  we're  looking  for  and  you  guys  will 
 get  to  see  in  a  second  what  that  looks 
 like  we  didn't  change  one  thing  no  I  I 
 don't  think  we  did  yeah  I  think  we  were 
 yeah  I  think  we  were  pretty  much  on 
 point  and  the  other  thing  too  is  we've 
 tried  to  do  this  on  our  own  before  we've 
 tried  in  other  houses  and  and  it  just  it 
 just  never  never 
 really  looked  like  it  always  looked  like 
 diyers  did  it  you  know  but  this  is 
 completely 
 over  the  top  well  you  know  and  that's 
 surprising  to  me  because  you  guys  I  felt 
 like  when  we  talked  from  the  first  time 
 to  the  next  time  you  really  knew  what 
 you  were  looking  for  I  mean  if  you  know 
 a  lot  of  my  clients  are  like  I'm  not 
 really  sure  I  I  kind  of  know  it  when  I 
 see  it  but  when  I  spoke  with  you  guys 
 you're  like  no  this  is  the  look  that  I 
 like  this  is  kind  of  what  I'm  going  for 
 so  watched  all  your  videos  oh  so  you're 
 very  educated  I  like  it  I  said  this 
 earlier  in  my  intro  part  of  the  video 
 and  I  said  that  um  you  know  when  we 
 create  a  space  for  for  our  clients  um  my 
 biggest  goal  my  biggest 
 thought  process  is  I'm  always  looking  at 
 the  space  from  your  entertaining  area 
 your  relaxing  area  your  porch  for 
 instance  and  trying  to  see  if  what  we 
 created  is  going  to  change  the  way  you 
 use  that  space  and  so  curious  to  know  do 
 you  think  that  that  is  going  to  change 
 the  way  you  use  your  outdoor  space  well 
 sure  because  the  the  screen  room  right 
 now  is  going  to  become  a  fully  enclosed 
 room  air  conditioned  and  everything  so 
 we're  actually  going  to  add  living  space 
 out  there  so  just  so  we  can  see 
 everything  we  spend  a  lot  more  time  out 
 there  yes  cuz  in  the  summertime  it's 
 just  too  darn  hot  to  be  out  there  and  we 
 just  we  in  our  other  houses  we  never 
 spent  time  in  our  patios  so  you're 
 really  going  to  just  multiply  your 
 square  footage  your  living  square 
 footage  back  there  by  enclosing  that 
 area  anything  else  that  you'd  like  to 
 share  with  the  YouTube 
 Community  we  had  the  most  horrible 
 backyard  because  we  had  this  huge  slope 
 then  we  have  a  drainage  pipe  in  the 
 middle  of  the  yard  and  so  I  really 
 didn't  think  anything  like  I  really 
 didn't  believe  you  could  do  anything  and 
 now  I'm  happy  with  our  backyard  and 
 before  that  I  was  like  I  love  our  house 
 but  I  hate  our  backyard  and  the  work 
 that  I  would  have  had  to  do  to  to  do 
 that  would  have  taken  me  6  months  eight 
 months  it  would  have  taken  me  a  long 
 time  and  a  lot  of 
 energy  maybe  if  I  was  a  little  bit 
 younger  I  could  have  done  it  but  I'm 
 just  so  over 
 I  need  I  just  hire  you're  smart  enough 
 now  to  know  you  don't  want  to  do  it  I've 
 done  all  the  Landscaping  I've  done  all 
 the  mowing  but  you  even  helped  us  in  the 
 front  area  and  so  we  could  do  a  little 
 bit  of  it  on  our  own  and  so  it  wasn't 
 like  okay  I'm  only  taking  care  of  that 
 and  I  don't  care  about  you  like  you 
 really  helped  us  with  everything  well 
 thank  you  you  know  you  guys  have  been 
 great  to  work  with  and  you  know  I  want 
 ultimately  I  want  success  and  we  were 
 just  talking  about  um  I'll  share  with 
 you  guys  kind  of  what  we  do  um  we  were 
 just  talking  about  sharing  um  a  care  SK 
 schedule  so  at  the  very  end  of  this  job 
 we're  going  to  walk  through  um  the 
 property  and  we're  just  going  to  go  over 
 kind  of  how  to  trim  how  to  maintain  how 
 to  fertilize  and  um  just  till  they  get 
 the  hang  of  things  um  they're  they're 
 gardeners  so  they  got  this  but  um  we're 
 just  going  to  go  over  those  Basics  and 
 I'm  going  to  leave  them  with  a  little 
 care  schedule  that  shows  the  plants  and 
 the  trees  and  then  the  description  on 
 there  so  when  I'm  gone  they  have  um  they 
 have  their  homework  list  yes  so  um  all 
 right  you  guys  it's  been  my  pleasure  and 
 I  thank  you  so  much  for  taking  the  time 
 to  do  this  and  excited  oh  good  I  I  can't 
 wait  to  see  this  in  6  months  and  and  see 
 how  it's  just  blossomed  and  filling  in 
 and  cuz  this  is  just  the  beginning  of  of 
 your  coverage  I  just  cannot  wait  to  see 
 it  all  come  to  town  I'll  come  back  and 
 it'll  be  a  jungle  I'm  excited  so  thank 
 all  right  thank  you  guys  so  there  you 
 have  it  you  guys  that's  a  u  backyard 
 space  that  we  finished  today  so  it  is  a 
 very  young  landscape  um  I  think  it's 
 going  to  do  the  job  for  my  clients 
 they're  going  to  be  really  really  happy 
 as  they  see  this  really  unfolding  create 
 that  seclusions  create  that  privacy  that 
 they're  hoping  for  um  in  their  space  um 
 you  know  I  uh  I  say  this  all  the  time 
 and  you  know  I  truly  truly  believe  it 
 because  it's  how  I  live  my  life  but  I 
 was  talking  to  my  clients  earlier  and  I 
 was  telling  them  that  when  um  when  you 
 you  you're  looking  at  creating  an 
 outdoor  space  you're  wanting  that 
 resort-like  feel  it  doesn't  have  to  be 
 that  cafe  on  the  corner  that's  your 
 favorite  place  to  grab  a  cup  of  coffee 
 with  your  friends  doesn't  have  to  be 
 that  you  know  that  bar  down  the  road  to 
 grab  that  glass  of  wine  with  a 
 girlfriend  or  a  husband  or  you  know  it 
 it  doesn't  have  to  be  that  it  could  be 
 your  back  porch  that's  your  favorite 
 place  to  do  that  it's  your  favorite 
 place  to  enjoy  that  that  that  front  that 
 front  porch  to  grab  that  you  know  cup  of 
 tea  or  or  cup  of  coffee  you  know  we  want 
 to  live  in  our  spaces  like  they  are 
 Retreats  and  that's  what  I  love  about 
 this  community  I  hope  Milton  and  future 
 hurricanes  don't  change  that  for  anyone 
 because  we  are  gardeners  and  things 
 really  do  evolve  as  um  as  our  Gardens 
 grow  and  as  as  things  happen  so  I'm 
 hoping  that  um  these  upcoming  videos  I 
 can  I  can  help  with  kind  of  giving  some 
 ideas  and  some  suggestions  on  what 
 what's  going  to  work  in  in  in  the  spaces 
 along  Florida  and  and  the  the  you  know 
 the  pluses  and  the  things  that  I've  and 
 the  things  that  I've  had  really  really 
 good  success  with  that  I  not  only  plant 
 my  own  garden  but  I  plant  for  my  all  of 
 my  clients  so  along  the  treasure  and 
 Space  Coast  these  are  things  that  are 
 tried  and  true  that  I  feel  confident  in 
 using  over  and  over  again  so  I  hope  that 
 I  can  pass  on  that  knowledge  to  you  guys 
 and  it  share  my  experience  with  you  and 
 as  you  guys  know  I  share  my  my  flaws  and 
 I  share  my  my  um  mistakes  so  I 
 definitely  want  to  share  my  good 
 experiences  with  all  of  you  guys  and 
 hopes  that  you  know  it  creates  your  it 
 helps  you  create  the  space  that  you  uh 
 that  you  want  for  your  own  your  own  home 
 and  your  own  garden  and  you  uh  and  in 
 the  space  that  you  live  in  however  for 
 those  folks  out  there  like  Lisa  and  Mark 
 who  found  me  on  YouTube  um  and  you  guys 
 are  looking  to  create  something  very 
 similar  to  this  space  and  you  um  we're 
 looking  for  more  than  just  inspiration 
 looking  to  have  it  done  then  give  me  a 
 call  I'd  be  happy  to  meet  with  you  uh  we 
 work  along  the  treasure  in  Space  Coast 
 so  we  work  all  the  way  as  far  down  south 
 as  Jupiter  Florida  and  go  up  the  coast 
 to  um  where  we  are  today  here  at  Coco 
 Beach  rockage  area  Satellite  Beach  so  if 
 you're  located  in  one  of  those  areas 
 please  reach  out  to  me  I'd  be  very  happy 
 be  to  take  a  look  at  your  space  and  walk 
 through  your  garden  and  see  if  we  can 
 create  a  space  very  similar  in  your  um 
 in  your  neck  of  the  woods  so  thank  you 
 so  much  for  watching  the  video  good  luck 
 to  all  of  you  guys  out  there  and  I  will 
 see  you  in  the  very  next  video  take  care 
 [Music] 
 he

---

 so  hey  gardeners  welcome  back  I'm  in  my 
 backyard  again  and  Milton  has  passed  the 
 rain  has  dried  we've  done  some  uh 
 cleanup  of  the  ground  and  the  next  step 
 is  to  protect  everything  from  the 
 infestation  and  the  bugs  that  are  coming 
 if  they're  not  already  in  the  garden  um 
 during  the  storm  there's  a  lot  of 
 breakage  on  your  your  plants  and  your 
 trees  and  the  best  thing  that  you  can 
 possibly  do  for  them  at  this  point  so 
 they  can  heal  and  start  to  gain  them 
 gain  you  foliage  is  um  protect  the 
 leaves  that  they  have  left  so  I  use  a 
 couple  different  products  I  want  to 
 share  those  products  with  you  and  I  want 
 to  share  um  a  couple  different 
 application  options  because  that  might 
 be  something  that  you  actually  have  in 
 your  in  your  you  know  garage  and  you're 
 not  having  to  go  buy  a  bunch  of  stuff  so 
 um  there's  three  different  products  that 
 I  really  do  like  um  they  go  from  easy  to 
 simple  um  the  very  first  product  that 
 I'm  going  to  mention  is  the  bifen  it  so 
 this  is  a  all  in  all  fantastic  pesticide 
 I  recommend  it  to  all  of  my  customers 
 everybody  who  um  when  we  do  landscape 
 installation  I  let  them  know  this  is  a 
 fabulous  product  to  kind  of  keep  your 
 bugs  or  your  um  your  plantin  pest  free 
 it's  what  the  professionals  use  when 
 they  come  out  to  spray  for  mosquitoes 
 it's  a  fantastic  systemic  if  you  need  to 
 spot  treat  one  particular  plant  or  tree 
 and  I'll  go  into  that  in  just  a  moment 
 the  next  one  is  um  Mallet  I  I  like  this 
 product  because  you  can  kind  of  you'll 
 notice  that  in  your  garden  that  your 
 your  plants  will  build  up  an  immunity  to 
 whatever  it  is  that  you're  using  no 
 matter  how  good  it  is  so  going  between 
 you  know  using  this  on  one  application 
 and  then  a  few  months  later  using  the 
 bifen  it  um  for  another  application 
 makes  total  sense  in  your  garden  I  know 
 having  two  different  containers  you  know 
 for  the  same  thing  can  be  frustrating 
 but  it  does  make  a  huge  difference  cuz 
 plant  because  bugs  will  definitely  um 
 get  used  to  one  of  those  products  so 
 having  both  of  them  is  ideal  um  the 
 third  one 
 is  something  if  you  need  it  in  a  pinch 
 so  I  use  this  product  and  I  mainly  use 
 it  for  mosquito  control  like  if  I'm 
 having  a  gathering  or  you  know  some 
 friends  over  and  we  want  to  sit  outside 
 because  that's  where  we  always  sit  when 
 we  we  come  to  my  house  um  I  will  use 
 this  just  put  it  on  the  end  of  a  hose 
 end  it's  like  a  hose  end  sprayer  here 
 and  then  you  just  completely  do  an 
 overshadow  just  make  sure  you  get 
 underneath  those  leaves  make  sure  you 
 just  get  as  much  coverage  as  absolutely 
 possible  with  this  guy  um  it  is  not 
 longas  unfortunately  like  the  other 
 products  the  other  products  get  into  the 
 root  system  get  in  you  know  really 
 really  do  the  trick  of  getting  in  but 
 however  if  you  need  something  quickly 
 this  is  something  you  can  get  from  Ace 
 Hardware  Home  Depot  place  any  big  box 
 store  you  can  get  this  from  and  it's  um 
 it  just  it's  a  it's  covers  a  lot  of 
 square  footage  in  one  bottle  I  think 
 it's  something  like  5,000  square  ft  so 
 you  can  really  really  get  your  money's 
 worth  with  this  guy  different  ways  to 
 use  these  products  now  most  of  us  have 
 one  of  these  guys  in  our  garage  this  is 
 a  one  g  gallon  pump  sprayer  it  will  do 
 the  job  it  will  take  you  forever  unless 
 you  have  a  small  area  I  would  say  this 
 is  my  least  favorite  way  to  do  it  I 
 mainly  just  use  this  for  weeds  I  don't 
 use  this  for  the  pesticide  treatment 
 because  as  you  can  see  I  have  a  lot  of 
 garden  so  I  tend  to  use  a  broader 
 applicator  um  so  I  use  right  here  my 
 favorite  thing  to  use  is  the  backpack 
 sprayer  it  does  a  good  job  of  reaching 
 back  into  um  into  the  the  buffer  cuz  my 
 buffer  runs  about  16t  deep  so  this 
 projects  way  back  there  another  thing  to 
 use  that  is  not  nearly  as  expensive  um  I 
 think  this  guy  was  a  couple  hundred  if  I 
 remember  right  but  um  this  is  a  hose  in 
 sprayer  and  there's  quite  a  few 
 different  varieties  of  this  um  but  I 
 really  like  this  one  you  just  plug  it 
 into  your  hose  here  it  has  a  spout  as 
 you  can  see  here  that  will  shoot  and  go 
 straight  up  or  you  can  turn  this  down  if 
 you're  walking  through  the  garden  and 
 you  just  need  it  to  shoot  and  spray  down 
 you  can  walk  along  the  garden  hedge  or 
 along  the  Garden  Path  and  really  really 
 get  um  a  lot  of  projection  from  this  now 
 I  will  tell  you  if  you  have  one  of  those 
 um  one  of  those  metal  hoses  that  don't 
 kink  or  one  of  those  um  black  hoses  that 
 really  retract  back  it  they  may  reduce 
 the  pressure  too  much  for  this  product 
 to  suck  up  or  for  this  this  applicator 
 to  suck  up  the  product  so  um  this  really 
 needs  a  good  amount  of  pressure  so  if 
 you're  one  if  you  don't  have  a  whole  lot 
 of  pressure  at  all  and  then  you  use  one 
 of  those  reductions  like  that  with  one 
 of  those  hoses  you're  going  to  notice 
 this  is  not  going  to  be  you  know  a  good 
 fit  for  what  you're  looking  for  but  in 
 general  this  is  my  favorite  thing  to  use 
 um  you  can  mix  your  um  I've  got  4  ounces 
 is  what  usually  takes  me  four  to  5 
 ounces  to  do  my  my  entire  Garden  back 
 here  I'll  put  4  oz  of  product  in  here 
 and  then  I  will  um  bring  it  all  the  way 
 up  to  the  four  depending  on  how  many 
 ounces  I  have  four  to  five  gallons  cuz 
 it's  one  gallon  per  ounce  read  your 
 labels  you  guys  I  am  not  a  pest  company 
 this  is  what  I  do  in  my  own  yard  so  now 
 that  that  disclaimer  is  out  there  um  but 
 I  absolutely  love  this  I  think  that  this 
 product  does  a  great  job  of  really 
 casting  the  product  out  I  feel  like  I 
 can  take  my  time  and  really  run  this  um 
 up  and  down  um  the  the  opposite  way  run 
 this  up  and  down  as  as  needed  so  you  can 
 really  just  paint  your  garden  with  this 
 now  I  use  this  a  lot  with  my  AGG  um 
 fertilizer  my  chelated  fertilizer  blend 
 this  is  great  for  liquid  fertilizers  it 
 really  cast  a  big  widespread  so  it's 
 fantastic  for  that  when  you're  using  the 
 pesticide  treatments  on  this  especially 
 on  this  one  because  this  one  you're 
 going  to  get  a  little  bit  of  that  mist 
 going  everywhere  so  Safety  First  you 
 guys  I  have  my  um  my  little  clear 
 glasses  I  just  look  so  Charming  in  um  I 
 have  my  long  rose  gloves  um  I  I  just 
 find  that  they're  nice  and  thick  they 
 have  that  leather  on  them  and  they  have 
 a  little  bit  of  an  arm  band  there  which 
 kind  of  helps  and  then  I  use  cuz  you  can 
 rewash  these  guys  is  finally  a  reason  to 
 use  your  masks  again  so  I'll  just  use 
 those  to  cover  and  um  this  product  is 
 completely  safe  after  it's  dry  you  know 
 my  dogs  run  in  and  out  through  the 
 garden  um  it  it's  it's  called  bifen  it 
 because  it's  also  got  a  termite 
 treatment  in  it  so  you  can  actually  take 
 that  wand  and  run  it  along  the  base  and 
 the  foundation  of  the  house  and  it  does 
 a  great  job  of  um  for  termites  um  you 
 can  run  along  your  mulch  bed  to  kind  of 
 help  protect  from  anything  that 
 encroaching  into  the  house  I've  spray 
 the  um  the  top  of  my  um  I  think  it's  a 
 Webster  it's  a  little  dust  thing  on  a 
 pole  I'll  give  price  to  put  a  picture  of 
 it  up  here  but  I've  sprayed  the  entire 
 top  of  that  and  then  I  had  it  run  it 
 along  my  Eaves  in  the  front  entrance  of 
 my  house  because  I  love  lights  and  my 
 lights  are  everywhere  along  the  front  of 
 the  house  which  can  bring  the  bugs  so 
 that  does  a  good  job  of  just  kind  of  giv 
 me  a  a  casting  of  all  that  without  it 
 running  along  my  house  so  um  I  really 
 like  that  you  know  applying  it  that  way 
 but  you  can  get  in  all  the  corners 
 perfect  for  spiders  but  overall  um  these 
 are  perfect  ways  to  keep  them  out  of 
 your  garden  now  what  I  do  like  about  the 
 bifen  it  in  particular  is  that  it  can  be 
 used  as  a  drench  as  well  so  if  you  don't 
 have  these  products  and  you  don't  have 
 an  extensive  amount  of  plants  or  trees 
 that  you  have  to  deal  with  um  then  you 
 can  take  a  gallon  of  like  a  milk  gallon 
 jug  and  add  a  little  bit  of  water  at  the 
 bottom  add  an  ounce  of  that  fill  the 
 rest  of  it  up  up  with  water  agitate  it 
 really  good  and  then  you  can  take  that 
 and  um  pour  it  directly  on  the  plants  or 
 the  trees  I  have  a  two  gallon  jug  so 
 I'll  do  multiple  trees  at  a  time  if  I've 
 got  to  do  just  specific  trees  that's 
 also  really  good  if  you  have  um  a 
 pollinator  area  that  you  want  to  keep 
 separate  from  this  space  so  say  you 
 spray  a  section  but  you  want  to  keep 
 this  section  because  you  know  these 
 these  products  do  not  discriminate  they 
 kill  everything  so  if  you  want  to  kind 
 of  keep  it  out  of  your  butterfly  garden 
 then  you  might  want  to  just  do  the 
 applied  method  of  the  drench  CU  it  goes 
 into  the  root  system  and  protects  the 
 plant  from  that  way  and  that's  um  that's 
 kind  of  a  nice  way  to  isolate  you  know 
 certain  plants  that  you  want  to  focus  on 
 so  um  but  yeah  you  guys  as  soon  as  the 
 water  dries  up  as  soon  as  you  can  go 
 ahead  and  clear  out  any  debris 
 underneath  your  plants  that's  where  your 
 bugs  are  really  going  to  um  just  kind  of 
 nest  and  find  a  home  in  there  so  if  you 
 can  clean  all  that  out  do  an  overall 
 casting  spray  or  a  treatment  get  up 
 underneath  those  leaves  as  you  spray  um 
 I'm  going  to  show  you  in  just  a  moment 
 kind  of  how  what  it  looks  like  when  I  do 
 it  with  my  backpack  sprayer  but  um  you 
 know  just  just  kind  of  give  it  a  really 
 good  good  cast  and  then  I'm  going  to  do 
 it  again  next  month  so  um  might  be 
 Overkill  but  I  know  that  I'm  really 
 going  to  get  in  there  and  protect  these 
 new  plants  and  trees  so  I'm  going  to 
 start  seeing  new  shoots  happen  this 
 happens  it  happens  to  us  we  get  tropical 
 storms  we  get  you  know  we  get  these 
 hurricanes  we  get  hard  winds  we  get  hail 
 we  get  you  know  Florida  Florida  it's 
 climates  Mother  Nature  is  not  always 
 kind  but  what  is  great  is  if  you  do  have 
 tough  Tropicals  you  can  see  that  they 
 will  bounce  back  and  I  will  do  an 
 updated  video  tour  of  the  backyard  I 
 know  right  now  it  looks  sad  it  looks 
 devastated  but  it  will  bounce  back  so  a 
 little  bit  of  trimming  a  little  bit  of  a 
 cleanup  but  first  pesticide  treatments 
 hit  it  with  a  good  pesticide  treatment 
 then  you  can  go  to  town  on  getting  rid 
 of  all  of  that  old  and  and  um  ugly 
 growth  so  um  but  yeah  let's  get  that  on 
 there  first  and  then  I  will  see  you  in 
 an  update  video  for  um  a  couple  more 
 tips  thanks  guys  good  luck  to  you  all 
 and  I'll  see  you  soon  bye-bye 
 [Music]

---

 so  hey  gardeners  Milton  is  approaching 
 um  he  is  supposed  to  be  here  late  late 
 tonight  and  um  all  of  the  work  in  my 
 yard  has  been  done  yesterday  I  worked 
 all  day  to  kind  of  clip  and  trim  and 
 clean  up  and  fertilize  and  um  kind  of 
 get  get  as  much  preparation  as  possible 
 all  the  small  stuff  has  been  staked  and 
 I  feel  like  I  have  you  know  I'm  as 
 prepared  as  I'm  going  to  be  so  I  thought 
 while  we  had  a  little  break  in  the  uh  in 
 the  rain  here  that  I  would  kind  of  walk 
 in  walk  around  the  garden  and  share  with 
 you  my  current  situation  and  um  and  then 
 I'll  do  the  same  thing  after  the  storm 
 and  kind  of  do  and  in  in  hopes  that  um 
 hopes  that  we  do  okay  and  let  you  see 
 kind  of  how  these  Tropicals  can  really 
 handle  some  of  these  some  of  these  tough 
 storms  I  mean  they  are  they're  they're 
 they're  pretty  um  they're  pretty  tried 
 and  true  and  they've  been  through 
 several  several  hurricanes  already  so  um 
 I'm  hoping  that  this  doesn't  deter  a  lot 
 of  you  guys  who  are  new  to  Florida  on 
 you  know  continuing  creating  your 
 beautiful  gardens  out  there  because  it 
 is  a  wonderful  place  to  live  amongst  the 
 plants  and  the  trees  and  yes  do  we  get 
 hurricanes  do  we  get  storms  occasional 
 tornadoes  I  know  it's  a  scary  thing 
 however  you  know  I  kind  of  want  to  share 
 with  you  the  before  and  the  after  and 
 then  I  mentioned  some  tips  I'll  link 
 that  video  down  below  of  what  you  can  do 
 prior  to  the  storm  all  of  that's  been 
 done  on  my  end  the  only  thing  to  be  done 
 next  is  um  once  the  storm  is  over  to  hit 
 it  with  a  good  pesticide  treatment  a 
 couple  times  do  some  you  know  additional 
 trimming  that  may  need  to  be  done  maybe 
 staking  or  raking  um  but  you  know 
 overall  they  will  bounce  back  they  will 
 flush  back  out  they  will  um  they  will 
 adapt  to  the  climate  they're  in  that's 
 what  I  love  about  these  Tropicals  I  love 
 their  heartiness  I  love  that  they  can 
 they  can  handle  it  just  like  we  can  so 
 so  after  all  the  work  is  complete  and 
 it's  nice  and  quiet  here  I  feel  like 
 feel  like  I'm  really  taking  um 
 appreciation  for  what  I  have  and  you 
 know  I  always  feel  like  I  do  but  now 
 seeing  everything  and  it's  just  you  know 
 it's  it's  looking  beautiful  looking 
 great  great  looking  you  know  so  you  know 
 I'm  feel  so  unfolded  around  um  the 
 beauty  of  of  the  tropical  garden  that  I 
 feel  like  um  I  just  want  to  soak  it  all 
 in  you  know  I  want  to  I  want  to 
 appreciate  it  and  then  I'm  going  to  do 
 my  best  every  single  day  to  to  kind  of 
 you  know  hold  on  to  this  feeling  because 
 right  now  I'm  looking  at  every  leaf 
 everything  that's  done  super  well  over 
 the  year  and  I  think  that  um  you  know  I 
 I've  I've  gained  a  whole  another 
 appreciation  for  my  Garden  in  the  last 
 few  days  so  uh  so  we're  going  to  walk 
 around  and  then  I  will  see  you  in  the 
 updated  tour  as  we  walk  around  again  so 
 you  guys  be  safe  take  care  of  yourselves 
 and  I  will  see  you  soon 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 so  hey  there  gardeners  so  we  made  it 
 through  hurricane  Milton  um  it  was  a 
 tough  one  uh  and  especially  with  those 
 severe  tornadoes  that  I  don't  think  any 
 of  us  ever  expected  um  but  I  feel 
 fortunate  and  blessed  that  we're  safe  my 
 family's  safe  our  home  is  safe  and  um 
 had  a  few  casualties  in  the  garden  but 
 overall  um  it  did  very  very  well  I  hope 
 I  was  able  to  capture  enough  of  what  the 
 garden's  current  date  is  so  you  really 
 kind  of  have  a  really  good  idea  of  what 
 these  palms  and  these  trees  can  really 
 handle  um  you  know  throughout  these 
 storms  um  my  backyard  garden  has  gone 
 through  um  tropical  storms  hurricanes 
 fortunately  not  many  tornadoes  but  um 
 but  it  has  gone  through  so  such 
 Devastation  and  then  bounced  right  back 
 so  I  kind  of  wanted  to  get  on  here  and 
 share  with  you  the  before  the  after  the 
 storm  and  then  a  few  things  that  I'm 
 going  to  do  over  the  next  few  days 
 that's  going  to  help  my  garden  back 
 right  back  so  in  a  few  months  it  won't 
 even  look  like  Milton  happen  it  would  be 
 like  Milton  who  so  um  I  I  there 
 everything  I  think  is  going  to  going  to 
 recover  with  a  a  couple  small  casualties 
 so  um  which  is  to  be  expected  um  overall 
 I'm  going  to  share  those  with  you  I'm 
 going  to  try  to  get  them  those  videos  up 
 as  soon  as  possible  so  for  those  of  you 
 guys  who  are  in  a  similar 
 situation  especially  those  of  you  guys 
 who  are  new  to  Florida  and  are  wondering 
 if  your  plants  and  trees  are  going  to 
 recover  from  that  wind  devastation  um  in 
 most  cases  they  absolutely  will  and  um 
 these  few  things  are  going  to  really 
 help  um  help  that  process  out  a  lot  a 
 lot  sooner  so  um  we  want  to  kind  of  do 
 that  as  early  as  possible  because  we 
 start  getting  our  cold  snaps  late 
 December  January  February  depending  on 
 the  year  but  um  you  know  so  you  kind  of 
 want  to  get  get  everything  back  healthy 
 and  strong  again  before  our  winter 
 season  hits  so  I  hope  those  videos  will 
 be  of  a  good  guideline  for  you  guys  and 
 um  work  well  for  you  so  um  well  thank 
 you  guys  for  letting  me  share  my  garden 
 with  you  and  I  wish  you  guys  all  the 
 best  of  luck  my  heart  goes  out  to 
 everyone  that  was  affected  during  this 
 storm  and  um  I  hope  to  uh  to  see  you  in 
 a  few  months  with  some  future  videos  of 
 the  backyard  garden  back  in  its  pristine 
 condition  so  all  right  you  gardeners 
 take  care  and  I'll  see  you  soon  bye-bye 
 [Music]

---

 so  hey  gardeners  welcome  back  so  today's 
 video  is  all  about  what  to  do  prior  to  a 
 hurricane  if  you  have  an  extensive 
 Garden  if  you  guys  followed  my  channel 
 you  know  that  I  have  a  very  extensive 
 Garden  so  prepping  for  these  storms  is 
 just  part  of  living  in  Florida  and  so  I 
 want  to  share  a  few  tips  that  I  do  in 
 help  to  help  kind  of  keep  um  keep  the 
 damage  pretty  minimal  so  um  the  very 
 first  thing  that  I  do  is  I  walk  through 
 this  Garden  several  times  um  prior  to 
 the  storms  it's  nice  and  quiet  now  right 
 before  all  the  weather  starts  to  hit  so 
 a  great  time  to  just  kind  of  walk 
 through  your  garden  see  if  there's  any 
 any  kind  of  loose  material  any  brown 
 limbs  anything  that  might  become  a 
 projectile  um  you  know  throughout  the 
 storm  it's  also  a  great  idea  to  get  kind 
 of  release  some  of  those  limbs  off  of 
 the  trees  because  as  I  say  that  here 
 comes  the  rain  but  to  release  those 
 limbs  off  of  the  trees  because  um  you 
 want  you  want  air  flow  to  really  hit 
 those  trees  now  when  I  have  um  more 
 compact  trees  like  um  gardinas  bottle 
 brush  trees  hibis  SP  and  Vilas  things 
 that  have  more  of  a  thicker  denser 
 canopy  head  and  have  more  of  a  Slender 
 trunk  that  I  give  those  guys  a  severe 
 haircut  prior  to  a  storm  because  and 
 sometimes  I'll  even  cut  a  little  gaps  in 
 them  so  this  is  the  time  to  give  your  to 
 really  experiment  with  your  cutting  you 
 can  give  them  as  ugly  bangs  as  they  need 
 just  because  it's  going  to  help  get  them 
 through  the  storm  they  will  flush  back 
 out  they  will  be  beautiful  but  the  last 
 thing  that  you  want  is  that  that  canopy 
 to  be  so  dense  and  so  thick  that  um  it 
 snaps  that  trunk  so  so  it  it  turns  into 
 a  sail  if  it  doesn't  have  if  it  can't 
 allow  air  to  pass  through  it  so  the  goal 
 is  is  to  really  open  that  tree  up  the 
 best  that  you  can  um  you  know  even  if 
 it's  green  and  I  and  I  know  normally  I 
 say  that  with  palm  trees  don't  cut  it  if 
 it's  still  green  but  in  this  case  even 
 some  of  those  lower  limbs  that  are 
 hanging  go  ahead  and  trim  those  off  and 
 I'll  give  you  some  some  insight  of  what 
 I  do  um  just  before  the  storm  hits 
 that's  going  to  help  protect  it  and  just 
 after  the  storm  hits  to  to  help  them 
 rebound  from  that  kind  of  stress  um  the 
 next  thing  I  do  um  and  this  is  not 
 necessarily  in  the  garden  but  I  think 
 it's  very  very  important  to  mention  is 
 um  I  I  clean  out  my  gutters  so  this  past 
 weekend  I  went  through  and  cleaned  out 
 my  gutters  and  um  really  kind  of  got  any 
 kind  of  leaf  debris  anything  out  of 
 there  and  really  made  sure  that  I  had  a 
 lot  of  um  you  know  I  had  had  good 
 drainage  going  on  you  know  my  house  is 
 pretty  level  I'm  just  on  a  slight 
 incline  for  those  of  you  guys  who  have  a 
 nice  nice  raise  then  you  might  not  have 
 to  worry  about  it  so  much  but  you  want 
 to  make  sure  that  all  of  that  water  that 
 um  Milton  is  going  to  bring  really  exits 
 um  along  the  foundation  of  the  house 
 line  so  you  kind  of  want  to  push  that 
 water  out  so  you  want  to  have  it  nice 
 and  clean  so  I  ran  a  hose  down  my  gutter 
 make  sure  everything  was  nice  and 
 flushed  and  clean  and  then  while  I  was 
 up  there  I  I  cleaned  my  gutters  didn't 
 realize  how  stained  they  were  when  I  was 
 there  but  anyway  so  so  that's  an 
 optional  thing  to  do  while  you're  while 
 you're  cleaning  your  gutters  for  the 
 storms  um  the  um  the  next  thing  I  do  is 
 all  of  my  big  trees  anything  that's  you 
 know  that  it  might  needs  extra  securing 
 anything  that  might  be  real  close  to  the 
 house  maybe  it  was  newly  planted  I've 
 done  this  for  my  clients  in  the  past 
 I'll  make  sure  that  Bryce  puts  up  a  um  a 
 video  clip  of  that  going  up  but  we  stake 
 them  with  wood  so  any  new  trees  that  you 
 have  or  any  trees  that  are  close  to  your 
 pool  screen  or  your  house  that  that  are 
 maybe  tall  and  kind  of  you  know  a  little 
 shaky  go  ahead  and  stake  them  um  better 
 to  be  safe  than  sorry  so  what  we  use  is 
 2x4s  to  to  brace  along  them  so  we  kind 
 of  just  dig  out  the  edges  a  little  bit 
 brace  three  to  four  2  by  2x4s  depending 
 on  the  size  of  the  tree  go  all  the  way 
 around  the  tree  we  take  and  cut  off 
 about  10  in  of  that  2x4  and  place  it 
 around  the  base  of  the  tree  around  the 
 trunk  of  the  tree  to  kind  of  help 
 protect  the  tree  itself  and  that  allows 
 us  to  be  able  to  screw  in  the  angled 
 2x4s  that  we  put  up  against  it  so  you 
 can  just  use  wood  screws  to  to  kind  of 
 angle  that  in  and  protect  the  tree  and 
 then  finally  we'll  we'll  do  two  rat 
 ratchet  straps  on  each  tree  um  just 
 because  there's  so  much  vibration  during 
 those  storms  especially  if  we  get  hurt 
 or  tornadoes  come  through  um  you  want  to 
 make  sure  those  ratchet  straps  are  going 
 to  just  going  to  seal  the  deal  of  making 
 sure  that  those  those  braces  stay  into 
 place  so  I  I'll  get  Bryce  to  kind  of  you 
 know  put  what  that  looks  like  um  maybe 
 even  a  clip  of  the  guys  um  installing 
 those  for  us  but  um  it's  really  it's 
 that's  an  ideal  thing  to  do  now  if  your 
 trees  are  12T  and  smaller  then  you  can 
 usually  use  just  the  strapping  material 
 and  some  rebar  it's  the  same  kind  of 
 concept  it's  just  more  of  the  pressure 
 kind  of  pulls  it  to  the  side  angle  in 
 those  rebar  pieces  and  then  um  strap  it 
 to  the  center  of  the  tree  and  you  can 
 just  kind  of  wrap  it  around  and  kind  of 
 tie  tie  a  knot  to  it  again  I  I'll  post  a 
 picture  of  what  that  looks  like  um  but 
 that  really  allows  that  tree  to  um  kind 
 of  give  it  some  extra  support  in  the 
 trunk  and  that's  kind  of  what  we're 
 trying  to  do  is  protect  the  trunk  of  the 
 tree  um  on  those  trees  the  reason  why  we 
 don't  use  the  wood  staks  on  those  is 
 because  the  last  thing  that  we  want  to 
 do  is  the  tree  to  stay  upright  but  the 
 tree  was  so  weak  because  it's  still 
 young  that  the  tree  breaks  in  half  so 
 you  it's  better  for  the  tree  to  actually 
 go  over  if  it's  a  young  tree  versus  um 
 being  held  up  by  wood  steaks  so  those 
 other  steak  are  going  to  be  just  enough 
 support  to  kind  of  help  it  through  some 
 of  the  some  of  those  winds  but  not  so 
 much  if  the  wind  really  comes  through 
 and  pushes  it  over  then  you  know  it  it's 
 better  that  way  than  to  snap  the  tree 
 itself  the  Big  Trees  however  those  those 
 can  handle  it  because  they  have  such  a 
 heavy  trunk  so  that's  why  we  use  the 
 2x4s  I  hope  that  makes  sense  so  um  so 
 definitely  go  ahead  and  stake  those 
 trees  this  is  the  time  to  do  it  as  we 
 know  that  the  storm  is  approaching  so 
 very  next  thing  that  I  do  and  um  as  we 
 have  time  right  before  the  storm  comes 
 this  is  a  great  time  to  fertilize  you 
 know  these  trees  these  plants  are  all 
 going  to  have  stress  during  this  storm 
 so  giving  them  a  a  little  bit  of 
 replenishment  is  an  ideal  thing  to  do 
 we're  going  to  have  lightning  we're 
 going  to  have  tons  and  tons  of  rain  with 
 this  storm  so  go  ahead  and  get  this  is 
 the  time  and  I'm  doing  that  right  now 
 while  I'm  filming  this  video  but  now's 
 the  time  to  go  ahead  and  hit  all  of  your 
 trees  with  a  nice  fertilizer  you  can  use 
 a  slow  release  fertilizer  I  use  Palm 
 gain  for  mine  but  you  know  any  kind  of 
 really  good  fertilizer  for  your  palms 
 and  your  plants  this  is  a  great  time  to 
 go  ahead  and  do  it  and  let  it  dissipate 
 as  this  this  uh  storm  comes  through  um 
 the  next  thing  I  do  would  be  after  the 
 storm  so  after  the  storm  I  would  at  if 
 you  have  like  a  chemlon  company  or  a 
 pest  control  company  or  you  know  anybody 
 who  kind  of  does  that  that  normally  for 
 your  for  your  service  for  your  yard  go 
 ahead  and  have  them  come  out  and  spray  a 
 fungicide  should  be  part  of  your 
 treatment  um  and  then  go  ahead  and  have 
 them  do  a  pesticide  treatment  as  well 
 because  when  your  trees  and  your  plants 
 have  been  battered  by  wind  there's 
 breakage  there  and  anywhere  there's 
 breakage  you  know  there's  stress  on  the 
 plant  in  the  tree  and  the  bugs  just  to 
 come  running  or  flying  um  when  that 
 happens  so  to  prevent  infestation  on 
 weak  material  go  ahead  and  hit  it  with  a 
 pesticide  now  I  I  treat  my  own  garden 
 and  I  know  a  lot  of  you  guys  do  too  I 
 use  bifen  it  and  I  will  just  spray  my 
 entire  garden  with  that  to  um  to  kind  of 
 just  protect  it  and  I'll  do  that  twice 
 I'll  do  that  right  after  the  storm  and 
 then  as  things  dry  out  a  little  bit  I'll 
 hit  it  again  so  um  you're  not  going  to 
 hurt  anything  you're  not  going  to  burn 
 anything  it's  just  a  great  um  1  o  for  a 
 gallon  and  then  I  use  um  about  five 
 gallons  in  a  sprayer  on  this  area  you 
 can  use  a  hose  in  sprayer  maybe  I'll  get 
 rice  to  put  up  a  picture  of  what  that 
 looks  like  but  um  yeah  th  those  kind  of 
 things  really  help  protect  and  bounce 
 back  so  many  times  I  think  I  did  a  tour 
 not  too  long  after  um  one  of  the 
 Hurricanes  that  came  through  here  it  may 
 have  been  a  tropical  storm  and  I  got  so 
 many  comments  that  I  cannot  believe  your 
 garden  didn't  receive  much  damage  and  I 
 do  that  after  after  a  storm  every  time  I 
 fertilize  prior  and  I  um  I  do  a 
 pesticide  treatment  after  and  I  just  see 
 the  rebound  happen  very  very  quickly  so 
 I  do  get  damag  but  it  does  pop  back  hope 
 these  tips  help  I'm  going  to  go  ahead 
 and  get  out  of  the  rain  now  so  um  you 
 guys  be  safe  take  care  of  each  other  if 
 there's  there's  anything  that  you  guys 
 have  done  and  that  you've  had  really 
 good  success  with  it  and  preparing  for 
 the  storm  please  leave  it  in  the 
 comments  down  below  I'll  be  sure  to  pin 
 it  um  because  kind  of  we're  all  in  this 
 together  and  I  know  we  all  put  so  much 
 time  and  effort  into  our  Gardens  and  you 
 know  I  know  we  all  hate  it  when  these 
 Storms  Come  and  we're  just  looking  at 
 the  devastation  that's  possible  in  these 
 beautiful  places  that  we've  created  so 
 so  I'm  right  there  with  you  I  um  you 
 know  I'm  just  trying  to  trying  to  make 
 the  best  of  it  so  I  hope  these  tips  help 
 and  I  will  see  you  guys  in  the  very  next 
 video  stay  safe  y'all 
 [Music]

---

 well  hello  true  gardeners  welcome  back 
 so  today  we  are  in  Palm  City  Florida  and 
 I  can't  wait  to  share  with  you  this 
 Garden  Tour  this  is  a  backyard  garden  we 
 finished  about  about  3  weeks  ago  so  it's 
 kind  of  starting  to  come  into  its  own 
 but  um  I  thought  this  might  be  a 
 fantastic  one  to  share  with  you  guys 
 because  it  has  a  very  simplified 
 backyard  pool  planting  um  the  layers  are 
 kind  of  you  know  just  perfect  to 
 replicate  if  this  is  a  kind  of  a  look 
 that  you  like  this  might  be  something 
 that  you  can  easily  borrow  um  so  I 
 thought  this  would  be  perfect  for  you 
 guys  that  are  diyers  out  there  who  might 
 just  need  a  little  bit  of  help  of  what 
 works  really  well  together  so  let's  Dive 
 Right  In  I'll  be  sure  to  mention  all  of 
 the  plant  names  I'll  be  sure  to  discuss 
 kind  of  you  know  what  um  each  plant  and 
 tree  really  likes  as  far  as  Sun 
 conditions  soil  conditions  um  overall 
 water  habits  that  way  you  know  you  guys 
 really  have  a  pretty  good  understanding 
 I  love  all  the  comments  that  you  guys 
 put  down  below  of  questions  that  you 
 have  because  some  of  these  things  that 
 as  I'm  walking  through  I  I  I  forget  to 
 mention  just  because  you  know  I've  been 
 doing  this  so  long  that  I  forget  to 
 mention  it  in  the  um  in  the  video  but  I 
 I  I  see  how  that  could  really  truly  help 
 you  so  I'm  going  to  do  my  best  to  try  to 
 try  to  mention  a  little  bit  more  detail 
 about  each  plant  and  tree  and  then  of 
 course  if  I  forget  anything  you  guys 
 always  know  you're  welcome  to  put 
 questions  in  the  comments  down  below  and 
 I  will  do  my  best  to  get  right  back  to 
 you  so  so  let's  get  started  in  this  tour 
 so  let's  start  first  and  foremost  with 
 one  of  my  favorite  trees  I  think  you 
 guys  know  this  already  it  is  the  fox 
 tail  Palm  we  have  four  Foxdale  Palms  in 
 this  back  bed  so  this  is  a  these  trees 
 we  were  fortunate  enough  to  inherit  um 
 the  client  had  um  a  landscaper  put  these 
 in  a  few  months  back  um  she  wasn't  sure 
 where  she  wanted  them  she  just  knew  that 
 she  just  had  this  beautiful  pool  built 
 and  she  wanted  to  kind  of  have  palm 
 trees  wrapped  all  the  way  around  the 
 kind  of  the  pool  area  so  she  bought  six 
 palm  trees  she  bought  these  four  um 
 these  four  Fox  tailes  and  two  queen 
 palms  and  once  they  were  put  in  she  was 
 like  didn't  give  her  that  tropical  look 
 that  she  was  hoping  for  so  she  called  me 
 in  uh  about  a  month  ago  and  said  could 
 you  just  kind  of  come  and  add  some  color 
 I  saw  your  YouTube  videos  I  really  like 
 that  layering  that  color  look  and  so 
 after  much  conversation  that  day  um  I 
 just  I  put  a  plan  together  and  I  decided 
 to  take  the  palm  trees  from  just  the 
 side  of  the  pool  cage  by  instead  of 
 having  two  and  two  and  one  on  each 
 corner  I  ended  up  incorporating 
 everything  into  a  back  buffer  planting 
 and  so  we  kind  of  so  we  kind  of  it's 
 like  musical  Palms  these  days  just  like 
 Kevin's  house  where  we  just  kind  of  took 
 up  what  he  had  and  moved  it  around  so 
 same  with  this  particular  house  uh  Laura 
 allowed  us  to  reuse  what  she  had  and  we 
 were  able  to  incorporate  additional 
 material  to  kind  of  really  make  it  nice 
 and  interesting  and  I  think  this  gave 
 her  the  biggest  bang  for  the  bug  this  is 
 the  most  you  know  all  of  her  doors  open 
 out  to  this  area  so  this  area  has  such 
 impact  with  color  and  layers  and  instead 
 of  trying  to  spread  it  all  the  way 
 around  we  really  just  kind  of  took  one 
 Island  the  main  focal  point  you  know  you 
 can  see  right  there  Bryce  if  you  let  if 
 you  um  look  that  way  you  can  see  how  all 
 of  those  doors  and  all  of  those  windows 
 feature  right  out  to  this  particular 
 spot  in  the  garden  all  the  seating 
 section  the  outdoor  kitchen  the  dining 
 room  area  everything  the  focus  is  right 
 here  so  I  thought  hey  let's  bring  the 
 garden  to  you  instead  of  trying  to  make 
 it  spread  the  whole  yard  length  so  I 
 think  that  it  did  a  nice  job  of  really 
 capitalizing  on  color  impact  and  her 
 palm  trees  so  now  that  you  guys  have  a 
 little  bit  of  that  background  sorry 
 about  that  I  will  get  into  the  plants 
 and  the  trees  so  starting  right  here  at 
 the  end  of  the  bed  after  you  guys  saw 
 the  fox  tail  palms  you'll  notice  that  we 
 have  Jasmine  here  now  Jasmine  is  not  a 
 typical  plant  that  I  tend  to  use  but  the 
 client  had  several  of  these  um  in  part 
 of  the  original  landscape  so  I  thought 
 let's  use  a  few  on  each  end  of  the  bed 
 that  way  we're  not  we're  not  tossing  all 
 over  little  plants  so  we  have  Jasmine 
 here  we're  going  to  let  them  get  nice 
 and  high  and  they're  going  to  keep  them 
 more  like  an  ending  point  of  a  hedge  so 
 we're  going  to  reuse  them  right  here  but 
 what  I  like  most  about  the  Jasmine  is  as 
 these  beautiful  sloppy  painters  get  nice 
 size  to  them  these  guys  are  going  to 
 kind  of  be  a  showpiece  over  top  of  the 
 Jasmine  that  green  is  going  to  make  this 
 variegation  and  yellow  and  green  pop  way 
 more  so  they're  almost  like  the 
 supporting  character  in  this  cast  so  I'm 
 going  to  let  the  sloppy  painters  get  a 
 nice  size  now  you'll  notice  that  the 
 sloppy  painters  are  kind  of  set 
 underneath  the  canopy  of  these  these  fox 
 tail  palms  and  this  is  kind  of  what  I 
 was  meaning  you  guys  putting  the  plants 
 where  they  belong  the  best  they  like  sun 
 they  just  don't  like  that  heavy  direct 
 all  day  sun  so  the  more  sun  they  get  the 
 more  they're  going  to  get  this  variation 
 in  color  but  the  too  much  sun  then  it  it 
 um  it  burns  them  out  so  we  want  to  make 
 sure  that  they're  underneath  the  canopy 
 and  as  this  tree  continues  to  grow  this 
 plant  continues  to  grow  we're  going  to 
 have  a  lot  of  um  sloppy  painters 
 underneath  the  row  of  palm  coverage  that 
 we've  got  so  we  kind  of  have  them  in  the 
 grouping  of  the  Palms  the  plants  that  we 
 have  to  the  front  that  we're  going  to 
 get  to  next  those  are  our  sun  lovers  so 
 those  are  the  things  that  can  take  the 
 scorching  full  blast  of  sun  without  Palm 
 coverage  like  these  sloppy  painters  do 
 um  sloppy  painters  do  like  it  a  little 
 uh  drier  so  I  have  a  tendency  when  I 
 plant  them  I  plant  them  just  a  tad  bit 
 higher  because  they  really  like  to  have 
 well-  draining  soil  and  this  soil  isn't 
 perfectly  well  draining  we  added  a  lot 
 of  um  pine  bark  nuggets  as  we  in  our  mix 
 with  this  um  and  some  Pete  Moss  to  bring 
 it  down  the  pH  but  um  it  this  this  soil 
 is  um  holds  water  a  little  bit  more  than 
 what  I  love  so  some  of  these  plants  and 
 trees  we  planted  a  little  higher  so  if 
 you're  in  that  same  situation  at  your 
 house  plant  them  a  tad  bit  higher  um  and 
 then  also  add  more  pine  bark  um  nuggets 
 to  your  soil  mix  and  you'll  notice  that 
 that  drainage  really  lets  those  those 
 Roots  air  out  so  um  quick  tip  all  right 
 so  right  here  right  in  the  front  where 
 they're  not  getting  much  coverage  at  all 
 these  are  the  fox  tail  ferns  if  you  guys 
 have  watched  my  channel  you  know  that  I 
 like  these  little  fuzzy  friends  I  use 
 them  everywhere  um  they're  only  going  to 
 max  out  to  around  that  2  2  and  1/2t 
 height  and  range  here  they're  going  to 
 Cluster  together  to  give  the  edge  of  the 
 bed  softness  I've  got  them  on  this  edge 
 of  the  bed  and  that  Ed  Edge  of  the  bed 
 over  there  so  it's  going  to  do  such  a 
 nice  job  of  giving  us  a  little  green 
 cluster  on  both  sides  allowing  for  a 
 more  polished  look  of  these  mamy 
 croin  now  Mami  croin  when  I  use  them  I 
 never  use  one  I  never  use  two  I  tend  to 
 use  as  many  as  I  can  fit  into  one  little 
 group  because  this  highlight  of  yellow 
 and  and  greens  and  reds  to  me  once  they 
 really  really  come  together  once  they 
 fill  in  and  this  is  one  big  collection 
 of  color  look  how  they  just  how  striking 
 they  are  and  this  is  just  a  few  weeks  in 
 but  wait  until  we're  6  months  in  one 
 year  in  and  there's  no  gaps  there's  no 
 mulch  exposed  here  and  it's  a  swath  of 
 red  and  yellows  so  we  go  from  a  swath  of 
 green 
 and  then  another  swath  of  greens  over 
 there  and  then  we  have  a  patchwork  of 
 yellow  and  green  for  a  highlight  that's 
 going  to  get  taller  with  the  sloppy 
 painters  and  it's  framed  with  green  on 
 both  sides  it's  going  to  make  those  guys 
 look  way  prettier  than  if  I  would  have 
 mixed  them  in  with  a  bunch  of  other 
 things  so  that's  kind  of  the  concept  so 
 sandwich  sandwich  your  um  your  stars  of 
 the  show  with  something  kind  of  more 
 moderate  more  clean  line  but  one  solid 
 color  and  then  these  will  show  off  in 
 time  way  way  more  then  use  your  high 
 like  color  at  the  bottom  so  we've  got  a 
 nice  swath  of  the  mamy  croin  these  are 
 going  to  maintain  a  nice  small  size  some 
 people  call  them  Fireball  croin  because 
 they  have  more  of  that  rounded  kind  of 
 look  to  them  they  kind  of  chunk  out 
 versus  grow  tall  so  now  I  have  seen 
 these  guys  get  into  the  three  or  4ft 
 range  but  they  can  be  easily  maintained 
 at  2  and  1/2  3T  just  by  trimming  the 
 tops  of  them  off  and  they're  such  slow 
 Growers  that  if  that's  the  height  that 
 you  want  to  keep  them  ideal  if  the  rest 
 of  your  bed  is  6  7  8T  tall  and  you  want 
 to  let  them  get  four  foot  tall  ideal 
 it's  really  it's  really  it's  like  it 
 they  just  fit  right  in  with  what  you're 
 what  you're  needing  for  the  space  so  go 
 ahead  and  um  go  ahead  and  let  them  work 
 with  with  what  you've  got  to  work  with 
 but  mamy  croin  and  a  nice  collection 
 really  show  off  a  spot  so  we  went  from 
 um  our  lights  our 
 darks  to  our  lights  again  so  golden  de's 
 are  a  fantastic  highlight  feature  um 
 they're  a  little  bit  shorter  they  grow 
 naturally  small  smaller  than  the  Mami 
 croin  um  they  like  that  heavy  amount  of 
 heavy  heavy  Sun  um  they  can  handle  less 
 water  they  can  handle  more  water  so 
 they're  kind  of  you  know  they're  they're 
 pretty  versatile  little  plants  that's 
 why  I  use  them  so  often  in  my  Gardens  um 
 one  thing  you  want  to  keep  up  with  is 
 you  want  to  make  sure  you  know  they  can 
 get  your  aphids  or  your  mites  or  your 
 white  fly  so  you  kind  of  want  to  kind  of 
 look  during  the  season  on  those  and 
 maybe  hit  them  with  a  pesticide  if  need 
 be  so  just  kind  of  keep  a  lookout  for 
 those  type  of  things  and  I  say  that 
 throughout  all  of  my  garden  even  when 
 I'm  walking  through  my  my  garden  I'm 
 looking  for  those  little  pesky  bugs  um 
 throughout  all  of  my  plants  and  trees  in 
 my  garden  and  that  saves  me  in  the  long 
 run  so  you  know  every  couple  months  just 
 kind  of  walk  through  and  take  a  good 
 Glimpse  to  see  if  you're  uh  if  you've 
 got  visitors  that  you  did  invite  um  so 
 these  golden  Dews  are  going  to  maintain 
 at  no  more  than  twoot  tall  so  they're 
 going  to  be  almost  like  a  carpet  of 
 yellow  that  is  their  goal  and  when  I  put 
 them  together  I  usually  put  them 
 together  in  a  cluster  whether  it's  a 
 cluster  of  three  highlighting  something 
 or  a  cluster  a  five  as  a  centerpiece  of 
 the  bed  and  that's  kind  of  what  these 
 are  doing  so  we  go  from  light  dark  light 
 and  then  we've  got  our  FAL  sagave  as  our 
 centerpiece  um  you  guys  know  that  our 
 excuse  me  our  flanking  intermediate 
 centerpieces  so  these  are  fantastic 
 accents  these  fals  aavees  like  it  um 
 like  it  on  the  dry  side  so  these  plants 
 really  can  handle  um  a  really  really  hot 
 heat  and  on  the  front  side  of  this  bed 
 it  is  steamy  hot  this  area  gets  Direct 
 direct  sun  direct  heat  and  then  their 
 pool  deck  is  white  so  it  gets  the 
 bounceback  effect  from  the  pool  deck  and 
 it's  just  so  surprising  the  difference 
 of  temperature  between  here  and  the  rear 
 side  of  this  bed  so  you  know  when  you're 
 getting  familiar  with  your  island  or 
 you're  planting  beds  um  in  your  own  yard 
 really  really  kind  of  get  a  good  good 
 grasp  on  um  the  location  of  the  Sun  how 
 hard  is  it  hitting  in  one  area  versus 
 another  area  because  you  can  have  a 
 backyard  that's  um  one  single  backyard 
 but  you  can  have  three  or  four 
 microclimates  in  that  backyard  so  you 
 have  the  possibility  of  using  so  many 
 different  variety  of  plant  clusters 
 because  this  area  gets  more  Sun  versus 
 shade  and  then  it  allows  you  to  open  up 
 to  have  so  many  different  varieties  in 
 your  backyard  that  maybe  um  you  know 
 maybe  you  wouldn't  be  aware  of  if  you 
 didn't  know  you  know  the  sun  conditions 
 so  I'll  not  harp  on  that  but  um  so  FAL 
 aavees  these  guys  are  going  to  get  that 
 nice  5  foot  in  height  range  really 
 become  focal  points  and  really  become 
 that  standout  feature  and  when  we're 
 looking  from  inside  you'll  notice  that 
 these  guys  are  framing  the  inside  of  her 
 um  her  waterfall  and  firebowl  um  on  her 
 pool  area  and  I  think  that  you  know  it 
 kind  of  needed  some  little  ump  around 
 those  columns  so  I  think  it's  going  to 
 do  a  really  really  good  job  of  of  doing 
 that  as  this  grows  in  and  then  you'll 
 notice  that  all  of  these  plants  in  the 
 front  are  genuinely  compact  tight 
 grouping  plants  they're  not  something 
 that's  going  to  get  wild  and  crazy  like 
 the  plants  in  the  back  so  those  are 
 that's  our  wild  and  crazy  party  fund  way 
 back  there  this  is  our  controlled  tight 
 better  stay  where  you're  placed  kind  of 
 plant  so  that's  that's  kind  of  how  the 
 layering  effect  works  so  we  got  two  fals 
 aavees  and  the  two  FAL  aavees  are 
 flanking  the  centerpiece  tree  which  is 
 the  bismar  Palm  this  bismar  Palm  is 
 going  to 
 be  a  stting  palm  in  the  garden  I  mean  I 
 just  soon  as  I  saw  it  I  love  the  bright 
 white  I  knew  we  had  a  screen  that  was 
 going  to  soften  some  of  this  color  so  I 
 really  wanted  her  to  have  a  lot  of  color 
 come  through  that  barrier  of  that  screen 
 so  it  felt  real  TR  tropical  back  here 
 and  you  know  nothing  screams  tropical  in 
 the  more  than  these  big  fan  paddles  of 
 the  bismar  now  bismar  can  handle  um  they 
 can  handle  the  heat  of  the  keys  Miami 
 all  the  way  up  to  our  area  all  the  way 
 up  into  I  believe  it's  into  the 
 Jacksonville  area  so  it's  really  it's  a 
 hearty  cold  hearty  Palm  tough  tough  Palm 
 can  handle  U  moist  conditions  in  the 
 soil  it  can  handle  Sandy  conditions  in 
 the  soil  it's  such  a  versatile  Palm  so 
 if  you've  got  a  tough  area  and  you're 
 having  trouble  with  things  growing  go 
 ahead  and  pick  up  a  bismar  palm  if  you 
 can  pick  it  up  in  a  small  pot  cuz  they 
 really  you  know  that  there's  no 
 transplant  shock  when  you  do  that  when 
 you  get  them  in  as  bigger  trees  you  have 
 to  be  a  little  bit  tougher  because  you 
 know  they're  they're  going  to  go  through 
 a  little  bit  of  a  shock  and  it's  going 
 to  worry  you  cuz  because  they  can  be 
 pricey  trees  but  these  guys  grow  a  nice 
 size  and  they  really  widen  out  they 
 really  give  you  a  big  impact  in  your 
 garden  so  go  ahead  and  um  splurge  on  on 
 a  a  silver  bisaria  Palm  cuz  they're  just 
 a  cool  cool  tree  um  if  it's  soggy  soil 
 plant  it  a  tad  bit  High  Don't  Be  Afraid 
 as  long  as  it's  packed  in  really  good 
 it's  not  going  to  blow  over  um  if  you've 
 got  while  it's  young  if  you  want  to  take 
 some  of  those  lower  fronds  off  so  the 
 wind  doesn't  catch  it  as  hard  that's 
 perfectly  okay  it's  a  tough  tough  tree 
 so  um  so  it's  going  to  do  really  really 
 well  in  the  garden  but  these  big  paddles 
 do  more  than  just  become  beautiful  they 
 offer  shade  to  the  plants  down  below  and 
 this  tree  is  just  starting  on  its  White 
 wide  Journey  so  it's  going  to  be  very 
 very  soon  it's  going  to  be  bigger  and 
 have  broader  limbs  that  pop  out  that's 
 really  going  to  do  a  good  job  of  helping 
 soften  the  Sun  from  all  of  the  plants 
 just  down  below  it  so  it  let  me  feel 
 comfortable  about  putting  mango  um  croin 
 down  below  at  the  bottom  you  guys  um  if 
 you  watch  my  tours  you  know  that  I  love 
 mango  croin  I  love  that  variation  in 
 color  you'll  see  that  this  one  that  gets 
 a  little  bit  more  sun  has  a  little  bit 
 of  the  orange  tones  in  it  that's  what's 
 pulling  out  that  color  and  then  this  one 
 over  here  that's  a  little  bit  more 
 protected  has  a  more  of  the  yellowish  um 
 and  the  edges  are  are  a  little  bit 
 deeper  and  darker  in  color  so  um  I  just 
 love  that  you  get  you  get  that  cool 
 squatted  look  so  these  guys  are  going  to 
 easily  be  the  perfect  skirt  for  this 
 bright  coloring  so  when  I'm  looking  for 
 plants  and  when  you  guys  are  looking  for 
 plants  if  you're  if  you're  trying  to 
 match  the  light  and  the  darks  it's  hard 
 not  for  those  plants  not  to  show  off 
 because  that  that  light  color  and  dark 
 color  really  just  make  each  other  look 
 fabulous  so  um  these  dark  tones  of  this 
 is  really  going  to  show  off  the  Silver 
 frons  of  these  especially  as  the  two 
 grow  together  to  become  really  really 
 happy  neighbors  so  I  think  it's  going  to 
 be  great  down  below  I  put  a  blooming 
 plant  CU  we  don't  have  many  blooming 
 plants  but  um  I  love  the  dwarf  exor 
 they're  another  plant  that  stay  where 
 you  put  them  now  I  know  they  get  used  a 
 lot  you  guys  in  gardens  I  see  them  uh 
 commercial  contractors  put  them  in  and 
 rows  of  200  in  subdivisions  but  don't  be 
 afraid  or  don't  shy  away  because  they 
 have  a  great  a  great  place  in  the  garden 
 and  if  you  put  them  in  I  usually  like  to 
 curve  with  them  because  they  tend  to 
 turn  into  a  hedge  even  though  that 
 they're  a  blooming  plant  they're  more  of 
 a  tight  configured  plant  so  they  can 
 turn  into  a  hedge  I'll  pop  a  picture  of 
 a  small  hedge  um  right  next  to  me  here 
 I'll  get  Bryce  too  and  then  that  way  you 
 guys  can  to  see  what  it  looks  like 
 connected  but  what  I  do  love  about  them 
 is  that  they  let  whatever  is  behind 
 behind  them  shine  so  if  this  is  a  nice 
 green  line  imagine  this  is  like  a  um 
 like  we're  working  with  u  um 
 highlighters  you  know  and  we're  just 
 highlighting  this  area  with  one 
 coloration  and  then  we're  going  the 
 opposite  way  and  highlighting  this  area 
 with  another  coloration  where  the  real 
 showstopper  is  some  things  in  the  back 
 that  we're  we're  trying  to  bring 
 attention  to  so  so  some  of  the  plants 
 when  you're  shopping  not  all  of  them 
 need  to  be  showstoppers  get  your  tried 
 your  true  your  tough  plants  your  gold 
 Mountain  your  mam  crotin  your  dwarf  exor 
 and  then  the  things  that  are  a  little 
 bit  a  little  bit  need  a  little  bit  more 
 love  a  little  bit  more  care  get  three  of 
 the  mango  croin  just  to  dial  into  the 
 perfect  spot  and  then  get  your  lesser 
 expensive  material  as  your  mass  planting 
 and  you're  going  to  get  a  lot  for  the 
 money  that  way  so  um  and  and  it's  going 
 to  show  off  beautifully  um  so  so  I  hope 
 that  hope  that  helps  you  guys  borrow 
 some  of  those  things  for  your  own 
 garden  so  I  did  and  I  don't  know  how  I 
 forgot  these  but  we've  got  two  triangle 
 fan  Palms  these  guys  are  fairly  small  um 
 they  were  a  25  gallon  pots  brought  back 
 here  but  they're  going  to  be  the  perfect 
 size  now  I  could  have  brought  these  in 
 bigger  we  had  the  budget  to  bring  these 
 in  bigger  unfortunately  um  the  trees 
 that  that  my  client  had  to  work  with  the 
 trees  that  we  inherited  the  foxtail 
 Palms  everything  in  this  bed  is  gauged 
 on  those  trees  because  those  trees  if  I 
 brought  in  you  know  trees  that  matched 
 this  height  in  this  tree  and  then  those 
 trees  then  we're  not  having  that  layered 
 effect  things  aren't  growing  well 
 together  so  when  you're  when  you're 
 picking  up  material  and  you're  thinking 
 I  don't  have  a  landscape  crew  I  don't 
 have  a  loader  I'm  going  to  have  my  two 
 sons  or  my  um  you  know  some  friends  um 
 do  a  weekend  planning  for  some  pizza  and 
 beer  then  um  you  know  pick  start  with 
 whatever  your  fundamental  trees  are 
 those  are  like  your  columns  in  the 
 garden  and  if  those  things  are  you  know 
 small  and  thin  and  and  maybe  10  foot 
 tall  at  the  very  tippy  top  then  that  is 
 what  your  your  tallest  scale  is  and  work 
 your  way  from  there  so  your  tallest 
 scale  is  going  to  be  there  so  your 
 neighboring  tree  needs  to  be  smaller  so 
 your  eye  it  it  works  with  your  eye  so 
 height  at  the  edges  drops  down  in  the 
 middle  has  a  little  bit  more  impact 
 whether  we're  doing  height  or  we're 
 doing  width  here  it  drops  down  and  then 
 we  have  all  of  the  larger  Palms  framing 
 the  area  and  then  everything  else  is 
 kind  of  your  understory  layers  so 
 everything  depends  on  your  tallest  tree 
 so  kind  of  kind  of  have  that  in  place 
 first  and  sometimes  I  tell  people  like 
 you  you  Becky  boots  um  we  were  just 
 emailing  back  and  forth  and  I  was 
 letting  you  know  go  ahead  and  start  with 
 that  triple  um  fox  tail  Palm  in  the  back 
 corner  of  your  yard  go  ahead  and  put  it 
 in  the  ground  and  then  that  way  you  can 
 play  off  of  that  tree  itself  and  even  if 
 that's  your  first  phase  and  only  phase 
 for  this  year  get  that  in  the  ground  and 
 then  you  can  start  working  with  material 
 as  you  get  it  and  work  your  way  forward 
 from  there  because  that's  really  what 
 gardening  is  it's  never  done  you  know 
 and  I  I'm  actually  going  to  be  back  to 
 Laura's  house  next  week  and  we're  going 
 to  be  doing  her  front  yard  planting  that 
 we  might  be  touching  up  on  some  of  the 
 sidey  yard  things  you  know  it  Garden 
 gardening  is  that  way  it's  catchy  you 
 fall  in  love  with  it  you  enjoy  it  so 
 much  and  as  things  really  unfold  and  you 
 see  them  come  together  you  want  to  keep 
 doing  more  and  more  of  it  so  um  and 
 thank  God  for  it  or  else  I  wouldn't  have 
 a  job  but  I  am  so  um  I'm  so  happy  to  be 
 doing  it  but  and  happy  to  be  sharing  it 
 with  you  guys  so  so  there  these  guys 
 even  though  we  had  the  budget  to  get 
 bigger  trees  we  got  smaller  trees 
 because  that's  what  the  space  called  for 
 and  I  think  it  turned  out  lovely  I  think 
 working  off  of  her  fox  tail  palms  was  a 
 was  a  great  choice  and  we  we  didn't 
 waste  anything  you  know  waste  not  what 
 not  so  um  so  again  we  ended  the  bed  with 
 her  Jasmine  that  we  had  left  over  it's 
 going  to  give  her  a  little  bit  of  fluff 
 here  and  then  ended  the  bed  with  our 
 foxtail  ferns  that  kind  of  gives  a 
 little  bit  of  softness  and  you  can  mix 
 with  textures  you  can  mix  with  color  you 
 can  mix  with  size  and  that's  kind  of 
 what  I  always  seem  to  do  so  it's  just 
 kind  of  like  uh  you  know  painting  you 
 want  to  make  sure  that  you've  got  a 
 different  texture  here  this  is  soft  a 
 little  crazy  a  little  fuzzy  these  are 
 more  more  controlled  but  you  get  a  lot 
 of  impact  with  the  color  and  then  you 
 get  the  golden  de's  compact  small  little 
 tiny  Hedges  they're  going  to  make  and 
 then  they're  braced  with  those  exor  in 
 the  back  which  are  a  little  bit  taller 
 but  definitely  the  same  they're  going  to 
 give  you  that  um  they're  going  to  give 
 you  that  real  clean  line  look  and  then 
 it's  a  rinse  and  repeat  which  allows  us 
 to  get  a  little  funky  in  the  back  a 
 little  crazy  in  the  back  because  that's 
 going  to  be  what  you  see  up  and  over  top 
 of  the  real  you  know  real  um  clean  lined 
 plants  so  nothing  feels  like  it's  going 
 to  be  um  nothing  feels  like  it's  going 
 to  be  so  overwhelming  like  the  garden  is 
 coming  to  get  you  I've  been  to  those 
 houses  and  they're  like  I  love  the 
 craziness  in  my  garden  but  I  feel  like 
 it's  attacking  me  so  that's  the  last 
 thing  that  you  want  so  let's  just  take  a 
 quick  peek  at  the  back  side  of  this  bed 
 so  you  guys  get  a  full  overall  view  so 
 again  underneath  the  palm  trees  we've 
 got  these  sloppy  painters  and  these 
 sloppy  painters  are  going  to  get  nice 
 and  thick  and  bunched  together  we  added 
 the  rest  of  her  little  um  Jasmine  and 
 then  brought  in  um  this  area  is  the  rear 
 side  of  this  bed  so  I  really  wanted 
 something  to  highlight  that  silver 
 bismar  palm  and  these  um  these  red 
 copper  leaves  are  just  going  to  do  that 
 thing  you  know  they're  still  young  but 
 they're  reaching  out  look  at  this  color 
 look  at  this  Leaf  now  as  this  plant 
 matures  this  Leaf  is  going  to  be  three 
 times  the  size  of  my  hand  in  all  color  I 
 mean  just  look  at  this  gorgeous  Leaf 
 Bry  and  you  guys  you  get  a  lot  from  this 
 plan  I  think  we  have  five  two  three  four 
 five  H  five  um  of  the  seven  gallon 
 copper  leaves  let  them  just  grow  in  and 
 become  a  a  solid  wall  back  here  and  I 
 was  telling  Laura  let  these  guys  get  six 
 foot  and  solid  and  thick  and  dense  right 
 now  they're  still  young  and  leggy  but 
 they'll  get  there  and  then  we  touched  in 
 just  to  kind  of  because  we  have  all  that 
 nice  clean  fun  in  the  front  we  to  bring 
 in  um  a  looser  plant  grouping  right  here 
 and  I  only  brought  in  three  but  we've 
 got  three  Java  whites  right  here  because 
 they  do  the  same  kind  of  thing  as  the 
 copper  lace  they're  a  perfect 
 neighboring  plant  to  The  Copper  lacee 
 these  guys  are  going  to  get  a  nice  size 
 back  here  and  just  cluster  together  and 
 just  kind  of  be  a  little  bit  of  a  wild 
 look  in  this  rear  corner  we've  got  one 
 on  that  side  and  the  other  side  the 
 irrigation  guy's  been  in  here  doing  a 
 little  bit  of  work  so  I  can  see  the 
 mulch  is  all  kind  of  ruffled  but  we'll 
 fix  that  next  week  when  we're  here  um 
 overall  all  that's  the  that's  this  bed 
 um  we  did  repurpose  a  couple  of  her  um 
 queen  palms  there's  one  over  there  that 
 we  brought  over  to  kind  of  when  you're 
 looking  inside  and  you'll  be  able  to  see 
 it  better  when  Bryce  shows  you  from 
 inside  but  we  took  her  palms  and  we 
 pushed  them  out  to  the  edge  of  this  bed 
 so  that  way  we  have  more  layering  Palms 
 from  the  main  view  line  which  is  the 
 most  important  thing  so  I  hope  that  um  I 
 hope  I  gave  you  enough  information  about 
 each  and  every  plant  without  you  know 
 going  into  too  much  detail  but  it  this 
 might  be  something  that  you  guys  can 
 tackle  in  your  yard  this  is  a  very 
 simple  landscape  Island  um  I  my  clients 
 love  it  I  think  it's  going  to  be 
 stunning  especially  as  it  grows  in  those 
 layers  are  going  to  be  so  easy  for  them 
 to  work  with  as  far  as  maintenance  wise 
 so  that's  the  reason  why  I  wanted  to 
 bring  you  guys  Along  on  this  particular 
 tour  today  because  um  you  know  I  I  know 
 that  it  can  be  overwhelming  when  you're 
 looking  at  a  big  space  and  you're  trying 
 to  figure  out  should  I  do  the  whole  yard 
 you  know  you  see  my  back  yard  tours  and 
 I  get  a  lot  of  questions  of  where  do  I 
 start  with  that  kind  of  space  sometimes 
 sometimes  the  space  that's  to  start  with 
 is  a  space  that  you  see  the  most  in  your 
 garden  start  there  really  play  with  that 
 area  and  if  that's  the  case  and  you're 
 in  in  kind  of  our  our  area  and  you  know 
 from  down  south  here  all  the  way  up  to 
 maybe  the  Satellite  Beach  Coco  Beach 
 area  the  these  plants  and  trees  do  super 
 well  in  both  of  those  environments  then 
 um  this  is  this  might  be  a  nice  um  a 
 nice  Island  to  to  recreate  in  a  space  I 
 think  it's  going  to  be  it's  lovely  now 
 just  a  few  weeks  in  going  to  be  gorgeous 
 in  6  months  to  a  year  so  that's  that's 
 kind  of  what  wanted  to  share  with  you 
 guys  um  and  I  know  a  lot  of  times  when 
 you're  you're  designing  your  own  Gardens 
 and  um  you're  putting  things  together 
 it's  so  easy  to  put  together  what  you 
 think  it's  going  to  look  like  now  get  a 
 bunch  of  showstopper  plants  throw  them 
 together  and  then  they  turn  into  kind  of 
 a  kind  of  a  you  know  a  jumbled  mess  cuz 
 plants  can  do  that  very  very  easy  so 
 finding  a  technique  that  works  um 
 working  with  plants  that  that  have  a 
 proper  place  I  think  is  huge  you  know  so 
 making  sure  you  start  with  that 
 controlled  feature  highlight  lighting  it 
 with  one  plant  grouping  instead  of  six 
 alternate  plant  groupings  and  and  so  on 
 so  if  that's  the  kind  of  video  that  you 
 guys  are  um  that  might  help  you  diyers 
 out  there  to  kind  of  um  recreate  I'll  be 
 happy  to  share  with  you  more  islands 
 that  we  do  to  see  if  different 
 combinations  and  shade  Gardens  and  Sun 
 Gardens  and  and  so  on  if  that's  the  kind 
 of  look  that  you're  looking  for  um  and 
 the  information  that  you're  looking  for 
 to  recreate  and  you're  doing  research 
 like  a  good  Gardener  then  um  you  know 
 then  I  I  hope  that  that  is  exactly  what 
 it  gave  you  I  hope  it  gave  you  some 
 information  to  take  away  and  uh  and  if 
 if  so  gosh  I  wish  there  was  pictures 
 that  I  could  I  you  guys  could  share  on 
 comments  from  from  YouTube  maybe  one  day 
 but  I  would  love  to  see  some  of  these 
 things  if  you're  going  to  tackle  this 
 Garden  or  tackle  this  style  please  leave 
 in  the  comments  down  below  just  so  I 
 know  that  I  did  help  somebody  else  so  um 
 but  for  those  of  you  guys  who  made  it 
 this  far  in  this  video  please  comment 
 true  Gardener  because  you  are  a  true 
 Gardener  I'm  sure  this  is  a  long  video 
 and  you  guys  are  awesome  please  like  And 
 subscribe  if  this  is  the  type  of  content 
 that  you'd  like  to  see  these  helpful 
 tips  that  you'd  really  really  like  to 
 really  like  to  um  to  know  more  about 
 this  is  your  jam  you  know  so  exciting 
 enough  if  not  already  very  very  soon  we 
 will  have  our  true  Gardener  t-shirts  out 
 ryce  has  been  working  diligently  on 
 getting  those  out  so  we  can  all 
 represent  true  Gardener  hopefully  I'll 
 be  wearing  one  in  one  of  the  next  videos 
 but  we  will  um  have  it  um  as  soon  as 
 it's  available  the  link  down  below  it'll 
 take  you  to  our  website  hit  the  shop 
 button  and  then  um  it'll  show  you  the 
 the  variety  of  colors  and  sizes  that 
 it's  available  in  and  if  you  did  get  a 
 shirt  if  you  will  come  comment  that  you 
 did  get  one  because  I'm  just  so  I'm  so 
 excited  to  to  see  um  to  see  this  spread 
 so  um  thank  you  guys  so  much  for  your 
 support  and  um  I  you  know  this  has  just 
 been  such  a  great  journey  so  thank  you 
 so  much  I  hope  you  found  this  video 
 helpful  see  you  in  the  next  one 
 [Music]

---

 [Music] 
 well  hello  true  gardeners  today  we  are 
 back  in  my  yard  today  and  I  thought  we 
 would  do  a  video  on  the  dirt  yes  I'm 
 getting  questions  on  what  is  the  best 
 soil  mixture  to  use  for  a  tropical 
 garden  well  I  will  share  with  you  my 
 soil  recipe  and  how  very  easy  it  is  so 
 the  very  thing  that  I  use  for  um  from 
 almost  all  of  my  tropicals  is  first 
 black  cow  black  cow  is  a  phenomenal 
 product  to  use  it  has  a  slow  release 
 fertilizer  in  it  and  I  would  say  it 
 makes  the  perfect  base  for  um  you  for 
 all  of  my  planting  beds  so  I  use  50% 
 Black  Cow  kind  of  go  over  here  and  show 
 you  guys  my 
 group  so  I  use  50%  black  cow  and  um  that 
 like  I  mentioned  that  is  my  base  so  this 
 kind  of  gives  your  plants  an  overall 
 slow  relase  snack  over  time  so  um  this 
 is  just  you  know  it's  a  lot  lot  lot 
 cheaper  than  Miracle  Grow  and  I've  seen 
 some  of  those  bags  it's  just  astonishing 
 to  me  125  I  think  $17  was  the  last  one 
 that  I  looked  at  for  the  Organics  but 
 anyway  this  is  much  much  cheaper  I  think 
 it's  $6  a  bag  and  you  get  quite  a  bit 
 from  it  so  this  becomes  my  base  for  um 
 for  all  of  my  either  um  potty  mixes  or 
 my  um  large  bed 
 fertilizers  the  very  next  thing  would  be 
 Pete  Moss  so  Pete  Moss  is  the  ideal 
 product  to  use  um  I  do  25%  so  if  I  have 
 a  pot  you  guys  I'm  going  to  use  50%  of 
 this  guy  here  25%  to  fill  up  the 
 remainder  of  the  pot  here  and  then  the 
 other  25%  would  be  the  pine  bark  so  go 
 back  to  the  magic  of  Pete  Moss  so  Pete 
 Moss  I  know  I  know  if  you're  a  gardener 
 you  probably  know  exactly  what  you  use 
 Pete  Moss  for  but  this  is  like  a  sponge 
 the  other  benefit  to  this  is  what  I  find 
 a  lot  through  our  Florida  gardens 
 especially  Vero  Beach  Melbourne  area  and 
 Vieira  now  um  with  all  the  new 
 development  the  pH  levels  in  the  soil  is 
 through  the  roof  so  anything  at 
 7.5  and  higher  I  use  maybe  sometimes  up 
 to  50%  Pete  Moss  because  I'm  trying  to 
 bring  that  pH  level  down  to  a  more 
 acidic  level  because  a  lot  of  the  plants 
 and  trees  that  I  like  to  work  with 
 really  appreciate  that  acidic  kind  of  um 
 soil  and  really  really  do  phenomenal 
 with  it  so  I  will  kind  of  bump  up  the 
 Pete  Moss  to  um  to  do  that  and  helps 
 with  that  so  um  and  there's  other 
 additives  that  I  add  in  but  this  I  would 
 say  that  this  is  my  perfect  base  this  is 
 what  I  start  with  so  if  you  know  if  we 
 need  potassium  if  we  need  some  other 
 micronutrients  um  because  considering 
 what  the  what  the  condition  of  the  soil 
 looks  like  after  I  have  it  tested  then 
 we'll  add  that  in  but  this  is  this  is  a 
 fantastic  base  to  start  with  especially 
 if  you're  working  with  pots  so  Pete  Moss 
 so  50%  25%  and  my  other  25%  is  the  pine 
 bark  nuggets  I  know  a  lot  of  people  are 
 going  to  ask  why  don't  use  peite  and 
 back  um  when  I  first  started  oh  gosh  100 
 years  ago  I  did  use  perite  it's  a  it's  a 
 great  product  but  I  prefer  this 
 especially  if  I'm  working  on  a  large 
 scale  bed  so  if  I'm  kind  of  doing  a 
 whole  back  buffer  or  an  island  planting 
 I'll  make  sure  to  use  this  pine  bark 
 nugget  it  does  a  nice  job  of  um  aerating 
 the  soil  makes  everything  a  little  bit 
 lighter  so  the  combination  of  these 
 three  really  work  hand  inand  with  each 
 other  you  know  what  they  do  so  this  kind 
 of  allows  whatever  plants  or  trees  that 
 I  plant  it  um  leaves  open  pockets  in 
 there  so  that  way  the  plants  aren't 
 suffocating  especially  in  areas  where  um 
 like  Melbourne  and  Vero  and  some  of 
 these  some  of  these  areas  that  have  more 
 of  the  um  Pond  soil  I  guess  is  what  I 
 call  it  the  soil  they  dig  out  of  the 
 ponds  and  they  make  that's  your  top  soil 
 now  and  it  turns  into  a  brick  when  it  um 
 when  it  dries  out  so  this  soil  mixed  in 
 with  that  really  does  a  nice  job  of 
 breaking  that  area  up  making  it  much 
 lighter  making  making  you  know  allowing 
 you  to  have  moisture  in  there  but  not 
 allowing  you  to  have  wet  feet  so  it  kind 
 of  takes  the  sogginess  out  of  it  and  it 
 breaks  down  so  slowly  that  I  feel  like 
 the  combination  of  the  three  just  do  the 
 make  the  perfect  soil  mixture  now  that 
 being  said  um  if  it's  a  very  small  area 
 or  a  small  potted  pot  potted  plants  or 
 anything  like  I  have  here  like  my  living 
 wall  which  the  pots  are  very  very  small 
 I  have  a  tendency  to  use  the  Coco  core 
 I'll  grab  that 
 here  this  is  my  favorite  product  um  for 
 that  so  I  might  not  use  the  Pete  Moss 
 but  in  place  of  the  Pete  Moss  I'll  use 
 this  this  is  a  brick  of  cocoa  I  like 
 that  it's  so  easily  stored  you  just  peel 
 a  piece  of  that  brick  off  and  then  you 
 add  water  to  it  kind  of  see  there  you 
 just  add  water  to  it  it  expands  and  it 
 makes  the  perfect  potted  mixture  so  a 
 little  bit  of  Black  Cow  a  little  bit  of 
 cocoa  core  and  just  a  tiny  bit  of  this 
 here  and  then  you've  got  the  perfect 
 potting  mixture  for  a  small  potted 
 planting  but  if  you're  working  with  a 
 big  area  and  you're  working  with  your 
 landscape  or  your  outdoor  exterior  area 
 these  are  my  three  go-to  it's  a  lot  less 
 expensive  than  getting  multiple  bags  of 
 Miracle  Grow  and  I  promise  you  you  will 
 not  be  sorry  they  their  combination 
 works  super  super  well  together  so  I 
 hope  this  video  helps  kind  of  shine  some 
 light  on  um  what  the  professionals  use 
 for  their  soil  mixtures  or  at  least  what 
 this  professional  uses  for  their  soil 
 mixture  and  um  and  it  works  really  well 
 for  your  garden  please  comment  down 
 below  if  you  use  it  and  you've  had  good 
 success  with  it  or  if  there's  anything 
 else  that  you've  added  to  your  soil 
 mixture  of  this  of  this  Trio  that  uh 
 that  you  like  even  better  I'd  love  to 
 know  so  comment  true  Garder  if  you  made 
 it  through  the  video  again  our  com  our 
 true  Gardener  t-shirts  are  going  to  be 
 down  below  and  I  will  see  you  guys  in 
 the  very  next  video  do  not  forget  to 
 like  And  subscribe  if  you  like  this  kind 
 of  content  and  I  will  see  you  in  the 
 very  next  video  with  a  few  more  helpful 
 tips  take  care  you  guys  bye-bye  so  hello 
 gardeners  today's  question  of  the  day  is 
 how  to  protect  your  palms  your  plants 
 your  trees  maybe  your  new  Landscaping 
 from  an  upcoming  hurricane  or  tropical 
 storm  so  we  just  went  through  a  uh 
 tropical  storm  over  here  in  virau  Beach 
 it  was  was  much  lighter  than  we 
 anticipated  I'm  so  so  very  thankful  I 
 know  they  got  hit  so  very  hard  um  Inland 
 and  and  um  you  know  it  was  a  it  was  a 
 lot  a  lot  of  water  but  we  were  fortunate 
 enough  to  not  get  the  the  devastation 
 that  we  were  worried  about  getting  um 
 this  is  a  project  that  we  finished  about 
 two  weeks  ago  so  um  we  ended  up  coming 
 back  here  the  day  before  the  storm  and 
 staking  the  trees  so  that  that  way  they 
 didn't  end  up  in  the  pool  and  I  want  to 
 share  with  you  guys  how  we  stake  them  so 
 you  guys  have  a  really  good  just  general 
 idea  if  this  might  be  something  that  you 
 want  to  tackle  for  your  trees  really 
 does  a  good  job  of  securing  your  trees 
 in  place  so  I'm  going  to  flip  this 
 camera  around  and  show  you  guys  exactly 
 what  that  looks  like  and  then  I'll  even 
 slide  in  a  picture  or  a  little  bit  of 
 video  of  the  guys  doing  that  as  as 
 they're  kind  of  working  through  it  so 
 you  have  a  really  good  um  really  good 
 feel  for  what  that  looks  like  so  but  the 
 very  first  thing  that  you  want  to  do  um 
 prior  to  staking  is  kind  of  walking 
 through  your  garden  any  limbs  that  um 
 are  brown  any  any  um  anything  that's 
 might  be  dead  in  the  canopy  of  the  trees 
 go  ahead  and  trim  that  out  you  know  I 
 know  we  get  a  several  days  of  warning 
 prior  to  those  storms  coming  so  walk 
 through  your  garden  a  couple  times 
 because  those  kind  of  things  turn  into 
 to  projectiles  very  very  easy  and  a 
 little  bit  of  wind  is  going  to  break 
 that  off  and  then  at  the  very  least  is 
 just  going  to  leave  you  with  a  terrible 
 mess  so  kind  of  walking  through  your 
 garden  and  opening  those  areas  up 
 cutting  them  out  and  it  also  does 
 something  really  good  for  maybe  canopy 
 or  thicker  trees  you  know  it  allows 
 allows  gaps  in  between  that  that  canopy 
 so  it  takes  pressure  off  of  it  being 
 like  one  thick  grouping  or  one  like  a 
 sail  it  actually  allows  air  to  pass 
 through  those  areas  so  sometimes  if  it's 
 a  new  tree  I  suggest  my  clients  even  if 
 it's  a  bad  haircut  give  your  trees  a 
 haircut  I'm  going  to  show  you  one  I'll 
 slide  in  one  that  um  that  was  done  that 
 way  it  was  a  powderpuff  tree  and  it's 
 just  you  know  they  their  their  limbs 
 when  they're  young  are  still  very  very 
 tender  so  there  was  a  good  chance  that 
 that  was  going  to  kind  of  you  know  just 
 fall  apart  or  possibly  break  in  half 
 because  of  of  of  the  wind  bottle  brush 
 trees  buganvilla  trees  hibiscus  trees 
 those  are  all  trees  that  I  would  cut  Way 
 Way  Back  allow  that  air  to  go  through 
 them  puts  a  lot  less  pressure  on  the 
 stem  itself  because  what  you're  really 
 worried  about  is  is  that  stem  if  that 
 stem  breaks  then  your  tree  is  pretty 
 much  gone  so  cutting  that  back  does  a 
 fantastic  job  of  of  allowing  that  to  go 
 through  and  that  goes  for  palm  trees  too 
 any  kind  of  Browning  any  coconuts  on 
 your  coconut  palms  anything  like  that  go 
 ahead  and  give  it  what  they  call 
 hurricane  cut  cut  it  cut  it  back  you 
 know  I  say  not  to  cut  you  know  all  of 
 that  nice  green  foliage  on  there  because 
 they  do  need  that  for  energy  and  your 
 trees  are  going  to  need  that  to  rebound 
 so  we'll  definitely  go  over  some  things 
 that  you  can  do  right  after  the  storm 
 that's  going  to  help  that  tree  and  plant 
 um  pop  back  after  you  know  after  the 
 devastation  of  what  wind  wind  and  rain 
 does  to  it  so  um  but  go  ahead  and  cut 
 back  anything  that  has  a  little  bit  of 
 brown  on  it  really  open  up  that  canopy 
 so  as  for  potted  plants  you  want  to  go 
 ahead  and  just  kind  of  if  you  can't 
 bring  those  inside  just  lay  them  over  um 
 you  want  to  just  kind  of  make  sure  that 
 they're  good  and  Satur  at  at  Water  them 
 really  really  good  because  even  though 
 that  we're  going  to  get  rain  when 
 they're  leaning  over  the  water  just 
 passes  right  through  the  root  ball  so 
 it's  not  going  to  help  at  all  so  go 
 ahead  and  give  it  a  good  dous  of 
 watering  and  then  right  before  the  storm 
 go  ahead  and  lay  them  over  and  um  kind 
 of  if  you  can  push  them  up  against  the 
 house  or  up  against  an  area  where 
 they're  not  going  to  roll  but  these  are 
 for  for  really  really  heavy  pots  so  um 
 that  does  a  good  job  of  just  kind  of 
 keeping  them  somewhat  secure  and  that  um 
 takes  a  lot  of  that  force  of  that  wind 
 off  of  them  and  then  of  course  you  know 
 that  they're  not  GNA  knock  over  and 
 break  in  the  wind  um  and  then  you  know 
 that  way  you're  dealing  with  that  but  go 
 ahead  and  lay  them  over  so  let  me  flip 
 this  camera  around  and  share  with  you 
 guys  um  how  we  go  about  staking  the 
 material  and  what  we  use  for  that  all 
 right  so  here  we  are  you  guys  we're  in  a 
 backyard  Island  planting  Bryce  and  I  did 
 uh  this  video  a  few  days  ago  um  funny 
 enough  you  guys  probably  haven't  had  a 
 chance  to  see  it  yet  because  uh  this 
 question  and  answer  is  going  to  come  up 
 before  the  video  is  ready  to  be 
 published  but  I  wanted  to  share  with  you 
 what  we  did  so  we  uh  we  came  back  to 
 this  house  these  trees  were  transplanted 
 they  were  her  original  trees  so  the 
 roots  have  been  cut  they  weren't  quite 
 ready  to  um  to  withstand  the  kind  of 
 storms  that  we've  had  they've  only  been 
 in  the  ground  newly  in  the  ground  again 
 for  2  weeks  so  what  we  did  is  we  put 
 plywood  on  those  and  then  we  put 
 strapping  on  these  but  first  we'll  talk 
 about  the  plywood  so  what  we  did  is  we 
 cut  these  2x4s  um  placed  them  um  the 
 ends  on  the  tree  itself  to  kind  of 
 protect  from  digging  into  the  tree  and 
 then  cut  the  angles  on  these  other 
 remain  on  the  other  remaining  2x4s  and 
 then  attach  them  to  the  boards  here  so 
 um  you  we  did  that  in  the  main  location 
 so  what  you  want  to  make  sure  is  that 
 you  get  all  the  way  around  the  tree 
 because  this  tree  um  over  over  during 
 those  wind  storms  it's  going  to  vibrate 
 so  you  want  to  make  sure  that  you  have 
 some  some  you  want  to  make  sure  that 
 it's  fastened  pretty  tightly  with  the 
 2x4s  and  then  ratchet  strapped  around  it 
 cuz  as  that  vibration  happens 
 these  guys  will  literally  come  off  the 
 edge  of  the  tree  so  this  ratet  strap  is 
 one  of  the  most  important  things  to  use 
 on  it  it  holds  it  secure  holds  it  tight 
 and  vibrates  with  the  tree  so  that  way 
 you  get  complete  coverage  now  on  a 
 larger  tree  this  one's  kind  of  narrow  so 
 three  is  just  fine  but  on  a  larger  a 
 thicker  tree  then  you're  going  to  want 
 to  use  four  that  way  you  get  all  the  way 
 around  the  tree  nice  and  easy  but  that 
 is  a  very  easy  and  simplistic  way  to  do 
 it  I  know  it  doesn't  look  like  it  but  a 
 few  snaps  um  these  ratchet  straps  make 
 it  very  very  easy  I  think  they're  like 
 N9  or  $10  so  it's  just  it's  definitely 
 worth  having  on  hand  and  then  just  cut 
 these  guys  that  way  you're  protecting 
 the  base  of  the  tree  and  then  angle 
 those  guys  in  right  into  the  ground 
 there  and  these  don't  have  to  be  dug 
 into  the  ground  you  see  they're  just 
 kind  of  just  kind  of  angled  into  the 
 ground  that  that  keeps  continuous 
 pressure  on  the  tree  now  we're  going  to 
 leave  these  on  here  for  the  rest  rest  of 
 the  season  so  since  we're  almost  through 
 it  um  but  you  can  leave  these  on  for  as 
 long  as  your  first  year  through 
 installation  or  you  know  I  know  they're 
 not  beautiful  so  if  you  want  to  take 
 them  off  that's  you  know  that's  that's 
 where  you  are  so  we're  going  to  take 
 these  off  at  the  end  of  this  season  so 
 on  a  smaller  tree  like  this  triangle  fan 
 palm  now  this  triangle  fan  palom  I 
 wasn't  very  concerned  about  it  when  they 
 get  bigger  they're  more  of  a  sale  you 
 see  all  these  gaps  through  through  this 
 they  are  built  for  wind  just  passing 
 right  through  those  and  so  you  want  to 
 make  sure  that  um  you  don't  overdo  it 
 with  these  guys  because  if  this  tree  for 
 instance  it's  such  a  young  tree  the  base 
 is  so  slender  if  you  put  something  like 
 the  2x4s  on  this  it  could  technically 
 snap  the  tree  in  half  and  that's  the 
 last  thing  you  wanted  you  would  actually 
 want  it  to  go  down  before  obviously  you 
 snapped  it  and  killed  it  um  so  the  whole 
 goal  of  these  these  straps  are  for 
 smaller  trees  and  those  straps  are 
 fantastic  for  bottle  brush  trees 
 um  Bugan  Vila  trees  any  hibiscus  trees 
 anything  like  that  where  you  want  to 
 make  sure  that  you  know  that  the  he  it's 
 not  not  at  all  a  heavy  tree  so  those 
 straps  do  a  good  job  and  we've  got 
 angled  in  rebar  right  there  on  that 
 corner  there  and  then  all  the  way  around 
 the  tree  and  then  all  we've 
 done  is  take  the 
 straps  and  knot  it  around  the  center  of 
 the  the  tree  again  we're  just  kind  of 
 keeping  pressure  on  the  tree  and  then 
 pushing  in  those 
 straps  and  that's  for  your  young  trees 
 and  at  the  same  time  if  there's  any 
 brown  frond  is  a  great  time  to  get  rid 
 of  those  things  anything  that  you  can 
 where  you  can  allow  the  air  to  go 
 through  the  trees  this  is  an  ideal  time 
 to  do  your  trimming  even  if  it's  not 
 even  just  kind  of  go  through  there  and 
 get  rid  of  anything  that  doesn't  belong 
 not  just  so  it  doesn't  become  a 
 projectile  because  it's  a  weak  link  but 
 mainly  because  it  just  allows  more  and 
 more  air  to  go  through  it  an  example  of 
 another  tree  that  needed  just  an  overall 
 haircut  now  this  tree  is  such  an 
 aggressive  grower  it  was  four  times  this 
 size  but  it  will  flush  back  out  however 
 the  stems  on  these  guys  are  kind  of  like 
 the  Royal  Poinciana  stems  the  Powder 
 Puff  stems  the  um  bottle  brush  stems 
 they're  um  they're  you  know  they're 
 thinner  branching  so  they're  not  a  hard 
 wood  so  it's  really  really  good  idea 
 just  to  go  ahead  and  give  this  a  pretty 
 severe  cut  back  the  wind  will  go  right 
 through  that  and  it's  not  breaking  that 
 trunk  and  then  of  course  now  you  have  to 
 replant  the  whole  tree  come  on 
 we're  give  me  back  my 
 clippers  Olive  what's  he 
 [Music] 
 doing  nice 
 done  look  at  Olive  she  still  has  good 
 girl  good  girl  give  here  let  me  have  the 
 gimmer  thank 
 you  you  want  to  go  in  here  with  me  come 
 on  let's  go  put  him 
 [Music] 
 away  all  right  you  guys  so  that  about 
 does  it  for  how  to  prep  the  area  for  um 
 for  a  storm  that's  coming  in  now  after 
 the  storm  so  we're  a  day  after  our  storm 
 and  um  the  first  thing  that  we're  going 
 to  go  ahead  and  do  is  we're  going  to  hit 
 these  trees  and  these  plants  especially 
 the  ones  that  look  like  they've  really 
 been  devastated  with  an  insecticide  so  I 
 use  bifen  it  it's  a  drench  um  I  uh  I 
 find  that  it's  a  really  really  good 
 product  to  use  because  it's  nice  and 
 aggressive  and  then  I  can  spot  treat 
 what  I  want  so  I'm  going  to  you  mix  an 
 ounce  of  it  into  a  gallon  of  water  you 
 shake  it  up  and  then  you  pour  it  on  the 
 plant  now  I  might  not  want  to  pour  it  on 
 my  pollinators  um  because  of  course  it 
 is  an  insect  killer  that  is  you  know 
 that's  what  it  does  but  on  some  of  the 
 plants  and  the  trees  that  I  know  are 
 going  to  be  attacked  because  they're 
 weakened  and  insects  come  running  after 
 storms  because  everything  is  is  pretty 
 much  weakened  from  from  that  damage  so 
 anything  that  got  some  breakage  on  the 
 leaves  those  are  just  open  areas  right 
 there  to  be  attacked  so  I  want  to  go 
 ahead  and  hit  them  with  um  an 
 insecticide  so  I  use  bipon  it  the  drench 
 um  and  then  the  very  next  thing  that  I 
 do  I  want  to  let  that  sit  I  want  to  let 
 that  that  work  into  the  into  the  ground 
 give  it  a  few  days  and  then  you  can  hit 
 your  trees  especially  your  palms  with  an 
 ulated  drench  um  I'll  link  it  down  below 
 but  it's  a  it's  a  drench  that  you  do 
 kind  of  the  same  thing  with  you  put  an 
 ounce  of  it  in  a  gallon  of  water  Shake 
 It  Up  and  pour  it  around  the  root  base 
 or  you  can  put  it  on  a  hoseen  sprayer 
 and  spray  your  whole  garden  um  that  way 
 so  they  have  the  little  dial  that  tells 
 you  how  much  to  use  on  there  but  you 
 kind  of  just  go  through  the  whole  garden 
 and  hit  everything  with  a  spray  it's  a 
 topical  if  you  can  do  that  in  the 
 morning  the  palm  trees  absorb  that  super 
 super  well  before  the  heavy  UV  light 
 comes  out  all  the  pores  are  open  on  the 
 palm  trees  so  if  you  can  do  it  early 
 morning  before  10:00  a.m.  and  just  kind 
 of  just  do  it  like  you  would  do  graffiti 
 on  a  tree  you  know  you  wouldn't  do 
 graffiti  on  a  tree  but  you  would  do  so 
 do  it  like  you're  painting  the  tree  so 
 the  whole  idea  is  just  to  paint  the 
 whole  tree  with  that  and  that  way  it 
 just  absorbs  through  the  entire  tree  um 
 you  can  do  it  on  your  Tropicals  but 
 mainly  um  it  it  it  does  a  great  job  of 
 of  really  giving  your  palm  trees  that 
 dose  of  like  just  that  jump  start  again 
 so  now  you've  protected  it  from  the 
 insects  so  it's  nice  and  safe  and  then  a 
 few  days  later  you  hit  it  with  an  AG 
 drench  and  then  now  that  trees  is  back 
 up  and  running  again  so  um  those  are  the 
 two  things  that  I  do  to  my  garden  after 
 we  have  a  storm  I  also  do  that  after  we 
 have  a  freeze  anytime  that  you  have  a 
 weakness  that  or  anytime  you  have 
 something  that's  going  to  devastate  your 
 garden  those  are  the  two  ways  to  protect 
 it  now  if  we  also  have  a  lot  of  sitting 
 or  excess  water  um  if  the  rain  just 
 keeps  coming  and  coming  and  coming  like 
 it  did  for  some  of  our  previous  storms 
 then  you  might  want  to  hit  that  with  a 
 fungicide  so  um  so  there  you  have  it  you 
 guys  you  can  hit  that  with  those  three 
 mixes  do  a  good  job  of  just  kind  of 
 protecting  your  garden  getting  it  back 
 up  and  running  after  a  storm  and  um  if 
 you  run  across  any  other  questions  then 
 please  let  me  know  those  in  the  comments 
 down  below  and  I'll  be  happy  to  answer 
 them  so  take  care  good  luck  gardeners 
 [Music]

---

 [Music] 
 so  hello  plant  lovers  today  we  are  in  my 
 backyard  here  again  Vero  Beach  Florida 
 Zone  10A  and  I  want  to  talk  to  you  about 
 croons  so  crotin  are  a  Florida  staple 
 and  I  kind  of  want  to  share  a  few  of  my 
 croin  within  my  backyard  and  hes  that 
 this  might  help  you  guys  maybe  demystify 
 some  of  the  cotent  issues  they've  got 
 their  they've  got  some  pros  they've  got 
 some  cons  but  overall  I  think  they're  so 
 worth  having  in  a  tropical  garden  so  I 
 thought  let  me  um  let  me  walk  you 
 through  and  uh  we'll  kind  of  talk  about 
 a  few  different  varieties  that  I  have  in 
 my  space  so  over  here  this  grouping 
 right  here  is  called  Nester  croin  I  love 
 their  elongated  Leaf  they  have  a 
 variation  of  color  which  I  think  is  so 
 fabulous  they've  got  a  little  bit  of  the 
 pinks  a  little  bit  of  the  red  tones  kind 
 of  kind  of  um  right  along  through  that 
 seam  there  they're  just  an  interesting 
 looking  cotent  and  I  love  the  size  that 
 they  get  overall  I  like  that  they're 
 going  to  be  a  nice  chunky  tall  croin  now 
 these  of  course  will  get  a  little  bit  of 
 that  legginess  if  you  can  show  them 
 Bryce  that  you  get  about  about  a  foot  a 
 foot  and  a  half  of  just  the  trunk  and 
 then  the  beauty  is  all  along  the  top 
 that  is  a  typical  a  typical  issue  with 
 croin  so  when  I'm  planning  to  do  croin 
 especially  if  I'm  planning  on  doing  a 
 big  mass  group  planting  of  them  I 
 usually  will  skirt 
 a  um  a  solid  little  chunky  plant  just 
 below  so  um  which  exactly  what  I  did 
 over  here  in  this  grouping  now  you  guys 
 bear  with  the  little  rubies  they're 
 coming  out  of  their  season  they're 
 getting  ready  to  be  trimmed  so  they  can 
 be  Lush  and  full  again  but  these  are 
 gold  dust  croin  and  you  can  see  they're 
 doing  the  same  thing  where  you're 
 getting  Beauty  at  the  top  but  you're 
 getting  a  little  bit  of  that  um 
 woodiness  to  the  bottom  of  the  trunk  so 
 I  really  do  like  to  do  a  nice  job  of 
 kind  of  creating  a  skirt  that's  going  to 
 give  me  a  solid  twot  buffer  uh  planting 
 so  that  way  you  really  get  the  benefit 
 of  that  Beauty  at  the  top  now 
 croin  you  know  I  I  have  seen  them  where 
 these  guys  will  come  through  with  the 
 mowers  and  blowers  and  the  trimmers  and 
 they  will  hack  the  tops  of  these  off  and 
 although  they  can  take  it  they  will 
 absolutely  take  it  it  is  really  really 
 harsh  on  this  plant  because  what  it  does 
 is  as  they  come  through  and  they  clip 
 the  tops  and  the  fronts  of  this  off 
 they'll  cause  tearing  of  the  leaves  and 
 each  one  of  those  edges  of  the  leaves 
 will  not  only  turn  brown  but  it  leaves 
 them  susceptible  to  disease  so  if  you 
 can  get  in  here  I  usually  have  my 
 trimmers  my  back  pocket  but  if  you  can 
 get  in  here  and  actually  trim  the  edge 
 of  the  plant  see  how  I  have  the  stem 
 that  I've  trimmed  to  keep  it  the  place 
 that  I  want  all  of  these  cuts  are  other 
 cuts  that  I've  made  by  hand  and  look 
 here  how  you  have  a  couple  couple  new 
 stems  coming  off  of  those  this  is  the 
 way  that  you  can  trim  them  and  keep  them 
 chunky  and  keep  them  full  and  keep  them 
 absolutely  gorgeous  um  right  along  the 
 front  and  the  the  top  and  the  front  and 
 sides  of  this  plant  so  really  if  you 
 would  mind  going  in  and  just  doing  a 
 hand  clip  and  and  the  way  I  I  trim  all 
 of  my  croin  is  I  kind  of  do  more  of  a 
 mushroom  effect  I  kind  of  flatten  them 
 out  a  little  bit  at  the  top  and  then 
 really  take  them  down  on  the  sides  so 
 you  kind  of  have  a  little  bit  of  a  a 
 mound  but  I  kind  of  just  kind  of  really 
 kind  of  give  them  a  good  level  here  and 
 then  kind  of  curve  them  on  the  side  so 
 I'll  clip  that  to  make  that  happen  and 
 so  when  they  flush  out  they  flush  out  in 
 all  those  areas  and  usually  where  you 
 cut  one  cut  you  almost  always  get  two 
 little  stems  popping  off  of  that  so  they 
 do  reward  you  so  trimming  makes  them 
 happy  go  ahead  and  trim  them  that  goes 
 for  these  small  leaves  of  those  croin  or 
 the  bigger  leaves  of  the  nesters  that  we 
 just  saw  so  and  that  also  goes  to  my 
 favorite  croin  which  we're  going  to  go 
 over  here  and 
 see  so  right  over  here  about  my  water 
 feature  you  guys  bear  with  the  mess 
 that's  over  here  we  are  um  installing  a 
 little  inground  spa  and  it  has  tore  my 
 whole  yard  apart  so  um  so  we're  having 
 some  troubles  I  don't  know  if  Bryce  if 
 you  can  see  that  sloppy  painter  that's 
 in  there  right  in  that  Nook  so  that 
 sloppy  painter  you  guys  that  that  plant 
 right  there  is  probably  about  5ot  tall 
 and  it  has  been  in  that  spot  for  about 
 five  or  six  years  it  they  grow  super 
 slow  that's  been  almost  in  the  dark 
 there's  very  very  little  light  light  in 
 that  spot  you  get  they  get  some  Morning 
 Light  and  you  can  kind  of  see  how 
 they're  searching  for  Morning  Light  in 
 those  spots  that  they're  in  but  there 
 what  I  love  is  this  plant  is  such  a  slow 
 grower  but  it  does  give  you  that  impact 
 that  pop  of  color  and  so  if  I've  got  a 
 dark  spot  in  the  garden  I'll  stick  a 
 sloppy  painter  in  there  and  it  will 
 lighten  that  little  area  right  up  so 
 it's  such  a  perfect  plant  for  that  and 
 I'm  going  to  pop  into  another  area  that 
 gets  a  little  bit  more  sun  so  you  can 
 kind  of  see  what  that  looks  like  but 
 it's  in  the  same  buffer  so  how  on  over 
 with  me  there  so  here  we  are  you  can 
 kind  of  see  the  croin  right  behind  my 
 bottle  Palm  there  and  i'  kind  of  I  had  a 
 big  hole  there  it  was  between  my  cat  pm 
 and  my  bottle  palm  and  I  wanted 
 something  to  kind  of  come  up  around  my 
 bottle  Palm  that's  going  to  give  me  some 
 color  so  that  sloppy  painter  does  just 
 that  it  doesn't  take  up  a  lot  of  space 
 it  stays  chunky  stays  full  in  time  and  I 
 mean  a  little  bit  more  time  like  a 
 couple  more  years  cuz  they  do  take  a 
 long  time  to  kind  of  get  to  where  you 
 want  them  but  it's  going  to  kind  of  pop 
 out  this  way  and  this  way  around  this 
 tree  and  really  give  me  that  interesting 
 variation  of  color  and  then  of  course 
 we've  got  some  dark  plants  right  on  each 
 side  of  it  to  really  kind  of  tame  that 
 color  down  so  anytime  you  have  something 
 nice  and  bright  in  the  garden  and  then 
 you  can  bring  something  dark  and  deep  in 
 color  right  next  to  it  then  it's  almost 
 like  you're  you're  forcing  that  to  pop 
 to  the  eye  so  I  think  those  two  play  so 
 well  together  so  I  cannot  wait  till  the 
 sloppy  painter  gets  there  so  I'm  going 
 to  share  this  with  you  guys  because  I 
 think  that  you  guys  should  see  the  good 
 the  bad  the  ugly  of  of  any  Garden  so 
 that  way  you  can  you  can  learn  from  my 
 mistakes  so  these  are  IC  tone  croin  and 
 this  was  beautiful  they  have  been  here 
 for  five  or  six  years  and  they  were 
 absolutely  stunning  but  I'm  going  to  get 
 Bryce  to  give  you  a  good  closeup  of  what 
 these  guys  look  like  now  so  we've  had 
 pool  construction  going  on  and  we  knew 
 prior  to  um  us  getting  the  pool  in  that 
 we're  going  to  have  to  cut  down  some  of 
 our  large  palm  trees  our  large  coconut 
 palms  in  order  to  get  the  little  pool  in 
 place  and  in  doing  so  it  took  away  the 
 shade  that  these  croin  really  appreciate 
 so  now  I  am  going  to  have  to  find  a  home 
 for  these  old  guys  and  put  them  in  a 
 spot  where  they  um  where  they  really 
 prefer  to  be  and  then  um  put  in 
 something  that  can  handle  more  of  this 
 sun  because  you  see  this  afternoon  sun 
 that's  coming  that  you  see  kind  of 
 hitting  me  it's  hitting  these  all 
 afternoon  just  about  after  2:00  which 
 prior  to  that  this  was  in  full  shade  so 
 um  we're  this  exactly  what  I  mean  about 
 proper  placement  for  a  plant  or  tree 
 because  they  were  stunning  for  so  many 
 years  you  guys  might  have  remembered 
 them  from  the  previous  video  that 
 they're  just  dark  burgundy  color  and 
 their  little  black  tips  and  they  just 
 kind  of  you  know  have  an  interesting 
 look  too  I  love  ice  tone  croin  but  these 
 are  not  happy  they're  not  attractive  and 
 they  they're  just  letting  me  know  that 
 they're  not  appreciating  the  uh  change 
 in  atmosphere  so  um  we  are  going  to  be 
 moving  these  guys  and  putting  something 
 more  sun-loving  in  this  spot  so  ice  tone 
 cotents  obviously  like  filtered  light 
 they  like  to  be  underneath  palm  trees 
 oat  trees  anything  that's  going  to  give 
 them  a  protection  of  canopy  so  um  so 
 yeah  that's  where  they're  going  to  go 
 now  we  have  some  croin  over  here  that 
 are  still  in  the  shade  because  we  have 
 some  European  fan  Palms  that  are 
 protecting  them  some  other  trees  to  the 
 back  that  are  protecting  them  those  are 
 lady  Claire  and  I  love  their  variegation 
 and  leaf  it's  a  different  Leaf  entirely 
 than  what  the  sloppy  painters  offer  it's 
 a  much  bigger  Leaf  to  me  it's  very  very 
 tropical  and  this  is  a  naturally  a  very 
 dark  spot  in  the  garden  so  I  like  idea 
 that  when  I'm  looking  from  the  deck  and 
 I  can  see  back  here  I'm  seeing  this 
 bright  pop  of  whites  amongst  those 
 leaves  and  it's  just  so  Charming  it's 
 just  so  beautiful  so  those  do  a  good  job 
 right  there  but  if  those  were  right  here 
 H  they  would  not  do  well  so  you  know 
 they're  just  in  the  perfect  spot  for 
 their  for  their  environment  so  um  yeah 
 so  and  then  the  same  thing  with  those 
 you  want  to  fertilize  all  of  your  croin 
 with  h212  you  want  to  trim  them  by  hand 
 because  I'm  telling  you  that  makes  all 
 the  difference  in  the  world  and  then  if 
 you're  in  a  in  a  Zone  where  you're  going 
 to  get  some  cold  temps  anything  into  the 
 um  the  high  30s  I  mean  30  35  to  38 
 they're  going  to  lose  some  leaves  if 
 they're  in  the  32  range  you  might  have 
 to  cover  because  they  really  are  a 
 little  bit  more  sensitive  than  that  I  do 
 not  have  to  cover  my  croin  at  all  if  we 
 get  into  the  32  range  to  30  anything  in 
 the  20s  absolutely  but  anything  above  28 
 29  I  don't  cover  anything  because 
 everything  in  such  a  is  in  such  a  heavy 
 cluster  together  they  almost  protect 
 themselves  and  that's  what  I  love  about 
 a  tropical  garden  is  it's  very  nestled 
 into  this  environment  so  they're  very 
 very  protected  in  this  area  so  I  love 
 that  um  that  part  of  this  this  buffer 
 back  here  so  um  but  yeah  and  and  mamy 
 crotin  are  fantastic  I  wish  I  had  some 
 and  I'm  getting  some  dreadlock  croin 
 that  I'm  going  to  put  over  there  in  the 
 corner  once  we're  done  with  this  Full 
 Construction  um  but  yeah  so  I  cannot 
 wait  to  show  you  guys  the  new  and 
 upcoming  Garden  that  we're  going  to  be 
 um  that  we're  going  to  be  creating  in 
 here  and  you  know  how  I  always  say  your 
 garden  is  never  finished  well  then  you 
 add  a  pool  and  your  Garden's  really 
 really  not  finished  so  we  are  going  to 
 create  more  of  a  Botanical  Garden  in 
 this  spot  because  now  we  get  planting  on 
 both  sides  one  along  the  wall  and  one 
 along  this  area  creating  a  nice  little 
 walkway  path  so  we're  going  to  um  so 
 that'll  be  up  and  coming  so  I  cannot 
 wait  to  share  that  with  you  guys  I  have 
 great  plans  in  place  for  that  so  well  I 
 will  see  you  guys  in  the  very  next  um 
 Garden  Tour  or  plan  of  the  week  and  I 
 thank  you  so  much  for  spending  this  time 
 with  me  I  hope  these  helpful  tips  help 
 you  out  in  your  gardening  journey  and  um 
 please  comment  true  Gardener  and  I  will 
 see  you  tri  gardeners  in  the  very  next 
 video  you  guys  take  care  bye-bye  so  hey 
 gardeners  welcome  back  so  just  as 
 promised  we  are  back  with  another 
 question  and  answer  at  the  end  of  this 
 video  and  today's  question  um  is  I  I  get 
 it  pretty  common  and  uh  you  guys  have 
 been  so  complimentary  of  my  own  backyard 
 and  talk  about  how  much  you  love  the 
 buffer  plan  and  the  thick  layers  and  you 
 know  just  kind  of  you  know  how  how  that 
 all  comes  about  but  your  your  main 
 question  is  when  you're  planting  your 
 trees  you're  starting  that  you  know 
 starting  that  privacy  buffer  where  um  or 
 how  far  do  you  plant  your  trees  apart 
 from  one  another  which  is  such  a  good 
 question  especially  in  your  the 
 beginning  phases  and  you're  looking  at  a 
 blank  slate  and  you're  like  thinking 
 okay  you  know  how  far  throughout  that 
 bed  do  I  need  kind  of  heavy  blockage  and 
 you  know  I  wanted  to  do  this  question  on 
 camera  because  this  is  um  it's  kind  of  a 
 it's  kind  of  a  hard  question  to  answer 
 you  know  it's  it's  a  little  different 
 for  everybody  but  I'll  do  my  very  best 
 to  be  kind  of  General  um  if  you  have  a 
 backyard  buffer  and  you're  like  a 
 situation  like  mine  where  you  have  a 
 couple  pool  um  screens  behind  you  that's 
 obviously  going  to  be  a  hot  spot  that's 
 kind  of  when  I'm  looking  for  my  my 
 clients  I'm  looking  for  what  you  know  is 
 it  a  roof  line  we're  trying  to  cover 
 over  here  on  the  right  or  do  your  back 
 doors  open  to  um  this  particular  area 
 and  we're  really  trying  to  focus  and 
 real  immediate  coverage  there  of  that 
 kind  of  PM  fron  look  so  um  so  a  lot  of 
 it  that's  where  I  start  I  start  with 
 those  hot  spots  so  what  you  want  to 
 start  with  at  your  very  rear  of  your 
 property  line  if  the  coverage  you're 
 looking  for  is  a  roof  line  or  a  pool 
 cage  or  you  know  a  neighbor's  house  or 
 what  whatever  that  might  be  and  maybe 
 you've  already  put  your  backdrop  in  like 
 a  Royal  kusia  or  row  of  um  Brazilian  Red 
 cloaks  or  something  that's  going  to  give 
 you  kind  of  that  lower  kind  of  canopy 
 coverage  but  you're  looking  for  now 
 blocking  what's  above  that  what's  behind 
 you  so  you  don't  feel  like  you're  in  a 
 fishbowl  kind  of  like  how  I  felt  um  you 
 want  to  start  with  your  vertical  trees 
 your  your  thick  canopy  Palms  that  are 
 going  to  be  above  it  so  you  can  do 
 something  like  your  triangle  fan  Palms 
 your  um  maybe  your  fox  tail  Palm  if  it's 
 a  thick  layer  you  might  do  multiple  fox 
 tail  palms  or  get  a  fox  tail  Palm  that 
 has  trip  uh  two  or  three  heads  to  it  so 
 it's  a  really  big  dose  of  coverage  right 
 there  so  um  you  want  those  to  be  your 
 tall  vertical  so  that's  your  your  rear 
 backdrop  that's  where  you  start  and  you 
 take  that  as  far  back  as  you  can  so  that 
 way  you  can  really  layer  in  front  of  it 
 and  that's  kind  of  what  I  did  there  so 
 my  rear  backdrop  is  the  clusia  Hedge 
 because  I  wanted  dark  dark  I  didn't  want 
 to  see  light  through  any  of  it  and  Palms 
 will  allow  allow  light  and  then  um  and 
 then  I  took  my  taller  more  vertical 
 trees  and  those  became  my  backdrop 
 backdrop  now  when  I  started  I  just  did 
 not  have  the  money  to  um  you  know  um 
 start  huge 
 um  even  you  know  even  though  I  have 
 access  to  trees  you  know  it's 
 Landscaping  can  get  pricey  and  I'm  with 
 you  guys  on  that  um  so  I  started  with 
 coconut  palms  because  coconut  palms  grow 
 like  that  you  know  you  you  wake  up  the 
 next  day  and  they're  20  foot  tall  so  I 
 started  my  backdrop  with  coconut  palms 
 and  that  is  my  first  rear  tier  uh  for 
 immediate  coverage  because  you  get  those 
 canopies  um  they'll  they'll  pretty  much 
 give  you  you  know  15t  width  of  coverage 
 of  those  dense  Tropical  Palms  frons  and 
 absolutely  stunning  in  that  way  um  and 
 then  I  started  with  my  my  next  round  of 
 trees  and  again  I  started  them  fairly 
 small  but  I  started  with  my  triangle  fan 
 Palms  because  I  knew  that  if  I  brought 
 my  triangle  fan  Palms  in  at  around  like 
 9  to  10  foot  which  is  about  a  25  gallon 
 size  and  then  I  brought  my  coconut  palms 
 and  my  coconut  palms  had  grown  above 
 that  I've  already  started  a  two-tier 
 effect  and  between  the  distance  between 
 my  coconut  palms  in  the  rear  to  my 
 triangle  Palms  in  the  front  I  bet  I 
 didn't  I  bet  I  didn't  give  it  6  feet 
 because  by  the  time  I  brought  my 
 triangle  Palms  in  they  were  kind  of  what 
 you  called  trunk  size  so  they  were  kind 
 of  the  size  of  my  coconut  palm  trunk  so 
 I  was  able  to  kind  of  layer  them  right 
 on  top  of  each  other  so  my  trunk  of  my 
 tree  was  here  my  coconut  or  my  triangle 
 Palms  kind  of  came  to  here  I  hope  that 
 makes  sense  I'll  see  if  I  can  get  Bryce 
 a  slide  in  a  visual  but  um  so  when  your 
 palm  frons  are  kind  of  just  where  your 
 trunk  of  your  tree  is  you  can  pretty 
 much  put  it  right  on  that  tree 
 um  fibrous  roots  of  those  of  those  palm 
 trees  you  know  they're  just  so 
 aggressive  they're  going  to  be  just  fine 
 connecting  and  and  and  working  with  one 
 another  you're  going  to  fertilize  them 
 all  at  the  same  time  anyway  so  you  know 
 you  can  you  can  put  them  rather  close  so 
 and  then  the  next  step  um  fortunately  I 
 had  to  wait  um  budget  wise  for  the  next 
 step  but  um  by  the  time  I  was  ready  for 
 the  next  step  those  triangle  Palms  had 
 become  taller  leaving  me  again  another 
 tree  trunk  to  work  with  so  I  put  in  in 
 front  of  those  was  the  bottle  Palms  now 
 I  know  the  between  the  distance  and 
 height  that  I'm  never  going  to  have  my 
 trees  compete  with  each  other  I  mean  not 
 in  a  level  where  they're  growing  into 
 each  other  obviously  I  want  I  want  layer 
 on  top  of  layer  that's  that  kind  of 
 tropical  look  that  I  like  or  else  I 
 could  spread  them  further  out  if  I  want 
 distinct  distance  in  the  steps  I  hope 
 that  makes  sense  but  I  don't  mind  my 
 trees  meshing  close  together  and  I 
 didn't  have  a  lot  of  room  to  work  with 
 my  back  buffer  is  15  to  16t  deep  and  I 
 know  that  sounds  like  a  lot  but  I  really 
 jam-packed  a  lot  of  stuff  into  it  so  um 
 but  if  you  have  more  depth  and  more  room 
 you  could  actually  start  your  tears  I 
 mean  from  the  back  and  work  your  way 
 forward  and  give  each  tree  total  room  to 
 open  up  and  and  not  compete  with  one 
 another  but  if  you're  like  me  and  you 
 like  that  look  of  FR  on  top  of  FR  you 
 can  literally  put  them  like  a  stair  step 
 effect  so  I  have  my  bottle  Palms  to  the 
 front  which  are  not  going  to  compete 
 with  my  triangle  Palms  which  are  here 
 and  then  I've  got  my  taller  palm  trees 
 in  the  back  which  would  be  my  coconut 
 palms  and  then  I've  in  and  arka  palm  and 
 other  palm  trees  there  so  so  if  you've 
 got  a  slow  growing  palm  tree  like  a 
 bottle  Palm  a  Spindle  Palm  European  fan 
 palm  pendo  palm  all  of  those  are  much 
 slower  growing  and  they're  more  of  a 
 petite  kind  of  style  tree  I  mean  will 
 they  get  big  absolutely  but  they're  not 
 going  to  ever  get  coconut  size  big  so 
 what  you're  going  to  want  to  do  is 
 you're  going  to  want  to  make  sure  that 
 you  keep  that  stair  step  effect  in  mind 
 you  want  to  make  sure  that  your  your 
 lower  trees  are  always  going  to  be  lower 
 than  your  next  size  tree  and  then  your 
 next  size  tree  is  always  going  to  be 
 lower  than  your  tallest  tree  and  you 
 know  and  if  I  say  I  wanted  Superior 
 height  back  there  and  um  I  had  room  for 
 it  I  could  put  in  a  a  a  royal  palm  way 
 in  the  back  knowing  that  it  is  going  to 
 overshadow  those  trees  and  become  a  huge 
 canopy  tree  above  those  layers  so  you 
 can  absolutely  always  always  get  plenty 
 of  um  you  you  can  always  go  back  and  tap 
 in  coverage  in  certain  areas  that  you 
 need  to  tap  into  so  um  so  do  not  be 
 afraid  to  really  pop  those  trees  in 
 condense  in  a  condensed  area  if  that's 
 what  you're  looking  for  and  then  you 
 guys  start  start  young  if  you  if  you 
 have  the  time  and  you  just  don't  have 
 the  budget  to  work  with  it  start  with 
 some  container  size  start  with  three 
 gallon  seven  gallon  15  gallon  25  gallon 
 and  as  long  as  you  put  the  right  trees 
 in  that  order  then  they're  never  going 
 to  compete  with  each  other  because  that 
 25  gallon  coconut  palm  is  going  to 
 outreach  those  um  intermediate  trees  and 
 those  intermediate  trees  are  going  to 
 outreach  those  lower  trees  so  um  so  gosh 
 I  hope  that  video  helps  and  I'll  try  to 
 slide  in  some  examples  of  of  what  we 
 were  just  talking  about  so  that  way  you 
 guys  have  a  good  clear  picture  of  that 
 and  if  you  need  more  clarity  on  that  I 
 will  do  my  best  to  to  talk  about  it 
 again  but  um  I  hope  that  that  helps  um 
 tropical  gardens  are  meant  to  really 
 intertwine  just  like  they  do  in  the 
 rainforest  so  don't  be  afraid  to  to 
 squish  them  into  your  garden  and  uh  you 
 can  uh  you  can  live  that  tropical 
 lifestyle  too  so  all  right  true 
 gardeners  thank  you  so  much  for  visiting 
 with  me  it's  been  my  pleasure  I've  had 
 my  cup  of  coffee  with  you  all  this 
 morning  so  uh  I  look  forward  to  seeing 
 you  in  the  very  next  video  you  guys  take 
 care 
 [Music]

---

 [Music] 
 so  hello  gardeners  welcome  back  today  I 
 am  taking  you  on  an  end  of  the  job  tour 
 video  we  just  finished  this  project  this 
 is  a  nice  little  front  yard  sidey  yard 
 uh  landscape  we  did  for  a  client  and  I 
 thought  I  would  take  you  along  because  I 
 got  a  special  request  from  a  um  from  a 
 subscriber  who  asked  about  butterfly 
 gardens  so  this  isn't  technically  a  full 
 butterfly  garden  however  the  biggest  um 
 thing  my  client  wanted  she  wanted  to 
 redo  her  landscape  obviously  kind  of 
 give  it  you  know  a  nice  little  upgrade 
 but  she  really  wanted  to  bring  in  the 
 butterflies  so  before  she  hired  um  me  to 
 come  out  she  did  go  to  a  local  Nursery 
 told  them  exactly  about  the  area  the 
 amount  of  sun  it  gets  and  and  get  them 
 to  kind  of  um  uh  pick  out  a  bunch  of 
 butterfly  plants  that  would  work  with  a 
 color  scheme  that  she  had  to  work  with 
 unfortunately  um  most  of  those  things 
 fried  they  just  didn't  do  well  they  were 
 a  little  bit  too  some  the  area  is  a 
 little  too  soggy  for  some  of  the  other 
 plants  so  she  it  was  just  a  pretty  much 
 a  complete  fail  so  um  she  called  me  in 
 and  she  said  look  I  want  this  redone  I 
 want  it  done  with  material  that's  Hardy 
 and  tough  but  I  definitely  want  to 
 incorporate  some  features  for  my 
 butterflies  you  know  and  I  can  see  why 
 she  does  have  like  a  nice  little 
 collection  of  butterflies  that  come 
 around  here  and  they  really  really  love 
 her  garden  you  can  tell  that  she's  kept 
 it  to  um  to  make  it  very  very  friendly 
 for  them  over  the  years  so  I  definitely 
 wanted  to  um  I  didn't  want  to  take  any 
 of  their  any  of  their  fun  away  so  we  did 
 re  redesign  the  landscape  and  although 
 butterfly  gardens  I  wouldn't  say  are  my 
 strong  suit  um  I  did  a  little  bit  of 
 research  on  what  works  in  this  area 
 what's  going  to  work  with  her  soil  she 
 has  a  very  alkaline  soil  it's  kind  of  a 
 soggy  location  this  area  doesn't  drain 
 really  well  so  I  really  needed  them  to 
 be  tough  plants  so  I'm  excited  to  share 
 with  you  guys  what  we  chose  and  hopes 
 that  you  know  if  this  is  a  a  similar 
 situation  in  your  space  that  this  might 
 be  um  some  butterfly  plants  that  you 
 choose  to  use  for  your  own  garden  so  so 
 yeah  so  let's  do  it  come  on  all  right  so 
 I  know  you  guys  will  find  this  as  a 
 shocker  but  one  of  the  nicest  um 
 butterfly  plants  that  I  love  to  work 
 with  are  blue  my  Minds  um  they  are 
 fantastic  attractant  you  know  just  such 
 beautiful  blooms  they  offer  so  much  so 
 Bloom  my  Minds  can  handle  um  this  kind 
 of  conditioning  they  can  be  planted  in 
 the  stone  because  they  like  it  dry  um 
 and  they  really  do  um  do  well  against 
 that  heat  and  combat  that  heat  on  the 
 pavers  so  I  love  using  blue  my  mind  as  a 
 nice  border  planting  they're  going  to 
 stay  nice  and  Compact  and  low  and  just 
 do  super  super  well  the  next  thing  is 
 the  yellow  thalis  I  mean  look  at  these 
 buds  on  these  guys  you  guys  aren't  they 
 just  gorgeous  a  beautiful  native  plant 
 to  work  with  they're  absolutely  a  happy 
 plant  um  the  only  negative  to  these  guys 
 is  that  over  time  as  they  grow  in  they 
 will  Bush  out  nice  and  full  together 
 however  you're  going  to  get  about  a  foot 
 to  a  foot  and  a  half  of  of  Woody  trunk 
 at  the  bottom  so  the  top  half  above  that 
 foot  to  a  foot  and  a  half  is  going  to  be 
 absolutely  gorgeous  absolutely  stunning 
 but  you  definitely  want  to  have 
 something  that's  going  to  be  about  a 
 foot  um  or  two  below  them  that's  kind  of 
 kind  to  give  you  a  little  bit  of  a 
 blockage  so  go  ahead  and  um  don't  be 
 afraid  to  use  them  for  that  reason 
 because  they  pay  off  um  super  super  well 
 I  enjoy  using  them  so  much  in  my  garden 
 so  um  they're  going  to  give  you  a  lot  of 
 this  bright  color  10  months  out  of  the 
 year  so  they're  a  great  great  attractant 
 Birds  and  butterflies  love  them  then 
 again  of  course  we  have  a  nice  SWAT  the 
 blue  my 
 minds  and  then  anarie  Lantana  I  love 
 this  type  of  Lantana  it's  not  so  much  of 
 a  spreader  but  it's  um  more  of  like  a 
 little  clumping  plant  so  very  similar  to 
 how  the  blue  my  Minds  do  but  they  get 
 nice  foot  and  a  half  to  twoot  tall  and 
 become  a  beautiful  you  know  just  kind  of 
 a  confetti  of  color  um  together  and  so  I 
 I  definitely  like  to  plant  those  those 
 in  groups  of  six  or  eight  you  know  just 
 really  kind  of  give  you  some  nice  thick 
 coverage  of  those  but  I  think  they're  a 
 fantastic  little  border  plant  and  of 
 course  Lantana  butterflies  birds  I  mean 
 everybody  loves  Lantana  so  they're  ideal 
 for  that  so  and  as  I  mentioned  that  um 
 the  plants  that  she  had  previously  here 
 just  pretty  much  fried  in  this  front 
 yard  you  know  midday  to  late  day 
 afternoon  sun  that  this  uh  this  front 
 yard  gets  so  these  lantanas  can  take  the 
 heat  they  are  summer  bound  and  actually 
 not  just  take  it  they  love  it  so  they're 
 they're  going  to  do  super  well  in  this 
 grouping  so  let  them  fully  connect 
 together  be  a  nice  swath  of  pink  and 
 reds  and  yellows  and  they're  just  such  a 
 cool  collection  and  they're  going  to 
 bounce  back  so  beautifully  against  that 
 purp  or  against  that  blue  Bloom  of  the 
 blue  my  mind  so  so  we've  got  blue  yellow 
 and  a  confetti  of  color  down  below 
 another  butterfly  favorite  is  going  to 
 be  your  dwarf  exora  and  what  I  love 
 about  those  is  not  only  do  the  birds  and 
 the  butterflies  love  them  but  so  does 
 everybody  else  because  they're  just  so 
 hearty  this  is  a  plant  grouping  you  can 
 keep  individual  you  can  let  them  connect 
 together  as  just  a  nice  solid  swath  of 
 bright  color  and  10  to  11  months  of 
 blooms  out  of  these  guys  oh  my  goodness 
 they  just  do  so  so  well  um  as  a 
 collection  planting  so  definitely  do  not 
 shy  away  from  those  guys  and  what  I  like 
 about  them  so  much  is  that  I  can  use 
 things  like  fals  Agave  or  small  palm 
 trees  kind  of  popping  up  out  of  the 
 middle  of  them  because  anytime  you  have 
 something  so  conform  like  a  boxwood  or 
 something  with  a  small  Leaf  that's  just 
 a  a  slow  growing  dwarfed  plant  you  can 
 actually  you  know  really  play  with 
 what's  going  to  go  right  next  to  it  so 
 right  next  to  it  we  have  the  fals  aab 
 and  so  imagine  as  these  guys  connect  and 
 grow  together  at  their  about  they're 
 about  three-  foot  tall  in  the  back  so  as 
 they  grow  together  as  a  threefoot 
 grouping  and  they're  going  to  curve  real 
 nicely  around  this  side  you're  going  to 
 have  this  guy  popping  up  out  of  the 
 middle  of  them  so  even  though  this  will 
 kind  of  form  a  soft  hedge  you're  going 
 to  have  this  that  kind  of  gives  it  some 
 Dynamic  some  interest  so  I  love  the  fal 
 sagave  not  necessarily  a  butterfly  plant 
 however  it  is  a  people  plant  I 
 absolutely  love  working  with  it  in  the 
 garden  so  this  is  going  to  do  a 
 fantastic  job  of  kind  of  creating  some 
 interest  in  this  in  this  low  area  and  um 
 and  you'll  notice  that  I  do  that  a  lot 
 in  my  Landscapes  where  the  middle 
 section  of  a  garden  I'll  keep  super 
 super  controlled  and  then  the  ends  where 
 you  know  you're  off  to  the  side  or  the 
 edge  of  the  um  the  house  I  let  them  get 
 a  little  crazy  a  little  wild  a  little 
 denser  a  little  thicker  that's  where 
 kind  of  the  softness  comes  in  but  this 
 area  more  manicured  this  is  this  is 
 going  to  be  almost  like  the  sculptural 
 part  of  the  landscape  and  the  rest  of  it 
 is  more  of  that  natural  softer  feel  so 
 you  kind  of  have  a  nice  contrast  of  both 
 which  I  love  So  speaking  of  compact  and 
 and  elegant  these  little  um  golden  Dews 
 again  not  a  butterfly  plant  but  they 
 they  support  it  so  well  so  it's  I  think 
 it's  going  to  be  such  a  great 
 combination  these  are  going  to  give  you 
 that  lower  grouping  of  what  these  guys 
 do  and  what  a  contrast  and  color  these 
 make  together  so  these  golden  Dews  or 
 gold  Mounds  really  do  a  nice  job  of 
 becoming  that  um  TW  foot  kind  of  compact 
 lower  hedge  so  we're  going  to  have  that 
 here  and  then  the  dwarf  exora  Taiwanese 
 in  the  back  and  then  we  end  it  with  the 
 same  other  feature  point  with  the  fal 
 sagave  the  clients  already  had  this  nice 
 Spindle  Palm  here  and  um  I  think  it's 
 going  to  do  super  well  as  that 
 centerpiece  now  that  it's  flanking  with 
 some  interesting  features  like  the  fal 
 agave  um  I  noticed  that  this  tree  has  a 
 little  bit  of  a  deficiency  you  can  see 
 the  the  flex  on  the  leaves  here  that 
 they're  really  um  it  really  struggled 
 but  we  hit  it  with  a  really  good  8212 
 fertilizer  and  then  um  hit  it  earlier  in 
 the  um  landscape  with  some  um  with  the 
 AG  drench  um  they  just  does  such  a  good 
 job  of  really  really  helping  that  um 
 with  some  micronutrients  and  of  course 
 the  8212  nutrients  um  in  the 
 granular  so  now  it  starts  to  thicken  and 
 become  of  a  looser  type  of  landscape 
 we're  still  bordering  it  nice  with  the 
 the  uh  blue  my  Minds  at  the  bottom 
 giving  you  that  soft  color  where  we 
 started  so  we  kind  of  have  a  repetitive 
 State  and  then  we  have  the  dwarf  fire 
 bush  which  I  love  these  guys  now  they're 
 not  super  crazy  fun  right  from  the  start 
 but  when  they  grow  in  they  become  a  nice 
 swirl  of  about  four  to  five  foot  so  you 
 can  let  these  guys  really  thicken  up 
 this  whole  space  and  they  just  bust  out 
 with  blooms  of  this  um  just  gorgeous 
 gorgeous  gorgeous  BL  Bloom  of  red  and 
 orange  I  just  I  I  think  that  they're  so 
 fantastic  not  only  do  the  butterflies 
 and  the  birds  love  it  but  the 
 hummingbirds  come  running  to  this  plant 
 this  plant  is  a  hummingbird  attractant 
 by  far  so  I  like  to  pop  these  in  the 
 gardens  anywhere  I  can  but  the  dwar  fire 
 buus  just  such  a  it's  a  it's  a  visual 
 Beauty  and  it's  also  just  so  so  great 
 for  all  of  our  little  Wildlife  so  um  so 
 dwarf  fire  bush  it's  going  to  get  into 
 that  you  know  4ot  range  here  and  then  5 
 to  six  foot  range  to  the  back  with  these 
 double  Peach  hibiscus  they've  got  buds 
 all  over  them  but  nobody's  open  today  so 
 um  hopefully  they're  going  to  open  up 
 and  blast  blast  some  blooms  here  in  the 
 um  near  future  but  yeah  we've  got  buds 
 everywhere  but  this  is  double  Peach 
 hibiscus  it's  one  of  my  favorite 
 hibiscus  I  think  it's  one  of  the  most 
 durable  the  double  Peach  the  Reds  and 
 the  pinks  are  my  favorite  hibiscus  of 
 choice  so  I  think  they're  going  to  do 
 super  super  well  but  that's  just  a  small 
 front  Island  bed  um  that  we  just  kind  of 
 redesigned  and  I'll  slide  in  a  before 
 picture  so  you  guys  kind  of  see  what  the 
 what  the  client  was  originally  working 
 with  um  we're  going  to  just  kind  of  take 
 a  quick  peek  at  this  sidey  yard 
 here  and  you'll  notice  we  used  a  lot  of 
 the  same  material  um  we've  got  a  little 
 clustering  on  this  corner  of  dwarf  fire 
 bush  we  opened  this  bed  up  she 
 originally  had  these  two  palm  trees 
 these  were  her  main  palm  trees  in  the 
 front  yard  and  you  guys  can  obviously 
 see  the  scale  of  the  house  it  really 
 called  for  something  bigger  so  we 
 brought  in  a  triple  fox  tail  and  a 
 single  fox  tail  Palm  to  kind  of  you  know 
 enhance  the  look  a  little  bit  and 
 brought  her  palm  trees  over  to  the  side 
 that  do  a  great  job  of  kind  of  giving 
 this  wall  a  little  bit  of  substance  here 
 um  her  sidey  yard  in  a  minute  I'll  let 
 Bryce  show  you  but  this  is  on  a  corner 
 lot  so  the  sidey  yard  is  very  exposed  to 
 um  the  whole  corner  of  the  community  so 
 um  we  wanted  to  make  sure  we  didn't 
 leave  this  out  so  as  the  backdrop  we 
 have  the  kusia  you  guys  know  how  I  feel 
 about  AIA  IIA  hedge  I  think  kusia  is 
 just  I  will  put  it  everywhere  I  think 
 it's  a  fantastic  going  to  create  a 
 fantastic  5ft  border  as  a  backdrop  here 
 and  then  again  we  continued  with  the 
 yellow  thalis  oh  my  goodness  look  at 
 these 
 bloes  going  to  give  them  color  year 
 round  there  and  just  do  so  so  well  in 
 this  particular  spot  they're  really  just 
 going  to  soak  up  the  sun  here  and  then 
 just  to  bring  in  a  little  bit  of  love  to 
 make  sure  the  the  butterflies  come  back 
 after  all  of  this  constru  ction  we  have 
 some  milked  here  I've  clustered  some  on 
 this  side  and  some  on  the  opposite  side 
 so  that  way  this  bed  has  a  nice  dose  of 
 milkweed  so  um  we  can  invite  the 
 butterflies  right  back  now  this  is  the 
 lantana  that  my  client  had  in  the  front 
 yard  we  trimmed  it  back  we  root  pruned 
 it  and  then  put  it  back  into  this  side 
 of  the  garden  because  this  this  area  is 
 not  going  to  get  so  much  of  a  close-up 
 look  um  and  they'll  give  these  guys  some 
 time  to  really  flush  out  and  keep  in 
 mind  we  just  finished  this  project  like 
 30  minutes  ago  so 
 um  so  it's  going  to  really  really  pop 
 back  and  do  a  nice  job  of  kind  of  giving 
 some  variegated  color  at  the  bottom  with 
 all  that  confetti  blooming  and  then  of 
 course  is  the 
 milkweed  and  we  finish  this  bed  off  with 
 the  exact  same  way  we  started  it  with 
 this  Christmas  palm  and  the  dwarf  fire 
 bush  on  the 
 corner  well  and  that  pretty  much  does  it 
 you  guys  that's  it's  a  nice  small 
 landscape  that  we  finished  in  a  couple 
 days  and  I  think  it  came  together  really 
 nice  it's  going  to  give  the  client 
 exactly  what  she  wanted  bringing  those 
 butterflies  um  and  birds  back  into  her 
 garden  and  you  know  and  it  also  it's 
 going  to  be  more  of  a  long-term  fix  for 
 her  um  overall  Garden  so  I  hope  um  some 
 of  those  plants  and  trees  are  something 
 you  can  incorporate  into  your  own  space 
 and  I  look  forward  to  seeing  you  in  the 
 next  video  please  comment  true  Gardener 
 um  if  you  made  it  this  far  in  the  video 
 um  also  we  have  new  gardening  t-shirts 
 coming  out  we  have  a  true  Gardener 
 t-shirt  that  should  be  out  in  about  a 
 week  or  two  I  will  make  sure  to  post  it 
 as  soon  as  it's  available  Down  Below  in 
 the  link  um  Bryce  and  I  are  so  very 
 excited  about  it  he's  been  tinkering 
 with  it  and  playing  with  it  for  months 
 and  now  it's  finally  ready  so  I  cannot 
 wait  to  share  it  with  you  guys  and  you 
 know  see  true  Garder  represented  on  a 
 t-shirt  I  just  think  it's  the  coolest 
 thing  ever  so  I  so  I  hope  you  guys  uh 
 check  it  out  down  below  so  I  will  see 
 you  in  the  very  next  video  take  care  so 
 hey  you  guys  welcome  back  I  know  I  said 
 goodbye  but  I  didn't  mean  it  no  we're 
 gonna  do  a  question  um  and  answer  after 
 every  single  video  we  thought  that  might 
 be  a  really  good  way  to  just  um  you  know 
 give  back  at  the  end  of  every  single 
 video  to  some  of  the  most  common 
 questions  that  um  that  we  have  coming 
 our  way  so  that  way  this  might  help 
 several  people  all  at  once  instead  of 
 answering  a  similar  question  over  and 
 over  again  in  um  within  the  comments  so 
 um  so  today's  question  is  weed  barrier 
 or  no  weed  barrier  and  the  answer  is  is 
 is  yes  and  no  and  I'll  explain  why  um 
 but  for  those  of  you  who  are  very  new  to 
 gardening  and  new  to  Florida  and  don't 
 um  use  weed  barrier  or  don't  know  what 
 weed  barrier  is  it's  pretty  much  the  um 
 the  black  mesh  barrier  that  is  used  on 
 top  of  the  ground  before  you  put 
 whatever  ground  cover  that  you  use  it's 
 what's  supposed  to  prevent  the  weeds 
 from  coming  up  and  through  it  um  now 
 we're  in  Florida  so  that's  you  know  it 
 it  it  helps  but  it's  not  perfect  the 
 projects  that  I  do  use  it  on  is  for 
 projects  that  we  install  stone  for 
 because  it's  very  very  important 
 important  to  have  a  barrier  base 
 underneath  of  your  stone  and  um  I'll  get 
 Bryce  to  show  you  an  example  of  what 
 that  uh  looks  like  in  um  actually  in  the 
 job  that  we  just  finished  that  you  just 
 saw  the  video  of  um  we  have  a  little 
 Stone  SWAT  there  so  in  that  stone  swath 
 we  use  that  barrier  as  a  base  before  we 
 put  our  Stone  on  top  of  and  so  that's 
 partially  to  help  you  with  the  weeds 
 that  are  going  to  come  up  through  those 
 rocks  CU  rocks  are  very  porous  there's 
 all  those  cracks  in  between  so  weeds 
 have  a  tendency  to  come  through  and  it 
 it's  it's  kind  of  hard  to  really  kind  of 
 pull  those  weeds  out  and  get  the  root 
 system  because  you  do  have  um  those 
 heavy  rocks  on  top  of  it  however  um  it's 
 kind  of  a  misconception  that  it  does  the 
 same  thing  for  mulch  it  it  it  really 
 doesn't  if  you  put  mulch  in  that  same 
 area  for  instance  in  that  same  um 
 project  that  you're  looking  at  um  we 
 haven't  uh  the  rest  of  it  is  Mulch  and 
 there  is  absolutely  no  weed  barrier 
 within  that  because  mulch  breaks  down 
 over  time  and  um  so  it  pretty  much  just 
 just  sandwiches  soil  above  and  soil 
 below  and  the  weeds  just  grow  um  along 
 the  top  of  that  with  mulch  so  mulch 
 really  doesn't  um  it  doesn't  promote 
 weeds  and  then  it  also  the  purpose  of 
 mulch  is  really  to  hold  that  moisture 
 around  the  roots  and  around  the  base  of 
 each  and  every  single  plant  and  with  the 
 weed  barrier  weed  berryer  has  a  tendency 
 to  really  restrict  um  the  water  from 
 getting  into  those  areas  so  I  don't  like 
 to  use  weed  barrier  and  mulch  it  kind  of 
 just  it  kind  of  doesn't  really  it  it 
 really  has  no  purpose  in  my  in  my 
 situation  so  I  don't  ever  put  it  within 
 the  plants  now  you'll  notice  that  I  use 
 plant  groupings  that  are  braided  plants 
 so  they  braid  at  the  bottom  which  means 
 the  roots  connect  at  the  bottom  and  the 
 C  the  the  upper  part  of  the  plant  the 
 stems  um  all  connect  at  the  top  so 
 you'll  notice  in  my  plant  groupings  I'll 
 have  like  a  swath  of  this  that's  fully 
 connected  and  then  the  only  Gap  is 
 within  the  next  um  plant  grouping  and 
 then  there's  a  swath  of  that  and  that 
 does  a  really  good  job  of  helping 
 helping  prevent  weeds  so  it's  more  of  a 
 a  clustering  plant  grouping  that  does  a 
 nice  job  of  preventing  weeds  but  um  so 
 yes  so  I  I'll  get  Bryce  to  kind  of  um 
 slide  some  of  those  uh  videos  in  from 
 that  video  you  just  watched  and  show  you 
 the  areas  with  stone  we  always  use  weed 
 barrier  it  helps  keep  the  stone  in  place 
 it  kind  of  helps  make  sure  that  it 
 doesn't  sink  or  you  don't  lose  Stone 
 over  time  and  then  of  course  it  does 
 help  with  the  weeds  and  that  kind  of 
 conditioning  now  keep  in  mind  and  I  know 
 this  isn't  part  of  that  question  but 
 when  you  use  plants  within  your  stone 
 garden  like  that  swath  we  have  in  that 
 particular  video  um  that  those  plants 
 you  want  to  make  sure  those  are  tough 
 hearty  plants  that  can  handle  the  bounce 
 back  from  that  stone  so  there's 
 definitely  um  rock  heats  up  so  you  know 
 the  things  like  the  blue  my  Minds  that 
 you  see  in  that  in  that  picture  and  the 
 yellow  thalis  super  super  they  love  it 
 hot  lovers  clusia  dwarf  clusia  exor  you 
 know  things  that  handle  that  kind  of 
 stone  wrapped  around  them  for  the  midday 
 heat  um  that's  what  you  want  to  keep  but 
 some  of  the  softer  plants  you  definitely 
 want  to  make  sure  they're  within  a  mulch 
 bed  because  they  need  that  little  cush 
 that  little  added  bit  of  moisture  so  um 
 so  I  I  hope  that  helps  you  guys 
 determine  whether  you  know  you're  you're 
 planning  on  using  weed  barrier  or  not 
 weed  barrier  so  my  entire  Garden  that 
 you  see  out  here  there  is  absolutely  no 
 weed  barrier  but  everywhere  you  see 
 Stone  there  is  weed  barrier  so  all  right 
 you  guys  well  I  sure  hope  this  video 
 helps  and  and  I  hope  um  I  I  i  i  as  you 
 can  see  how  long  that  would  have  taken 
 me  to  write  so  I  wanted  to  give  you  guys 
 as  much  detail  as  possible  and  I  tend  to 
 really  over  explain  so  um  so  I  more 
 comments  for  us  oh  so  yes  like  Bryce 
 mentioned  please  leave  some  more 
 comments  for  us  of  any  questions  that 
 you  might  be  fighting  with  in  your 
 garden  because  if  you  had  those 
 questions  I'm  sure  so  many  others  do  and 
 if  I  can  demystify  anything  for  you  and 
 in  my  experience  and  what  I  do  here  then 
 I  am  so  very  happy  to  do  so  so  thank  you 
 guys  so  much  and  I'll  see  you  in  the 
 very  next  next  video  comment  true 
 Gardener  you  true  gardeners  and  I  will 
 see  you  later  bye-bye

---

 [Music] 
 so  hello  fellow  gardeners  so  today  is  an 
 improptu  backyard  garden  tour  on  a 
 project  we  did  about  a  year  ago  I 
 naturally  do  a  walk  through  about  a  year 
 I  do  a  six-month  and  a  year  walk  through 
 on  all  of  my  projects  just  to  kind  of 
 see  you  know  how  things  are  growing  if 
 everything's  doing  what  it's  supposed  to 
 do  seeing  if  we're  checking  in  on  um  you 
 know  anything  that  might  have  disease  or 
 you  know  any  natural  problems  that  we 
 have  in  Florida  and  kind  of  cutting 
 those  off  as  they  go  um  and  everything 
 looks  so  beautiful  so  Lush  so  full  I 
 thought  you  know  what  let  me  uh  let  me 
 pull  this  camera  out  and  just  uh  take 
 you  on  a  quick  update  of  how 
 everything's  growing  in  so  if  you  guys 
 have  a  very  small  backyard  space  but  you 
 spend  a  lot  of  time  there  and  you  want 
 some  concealment  from  your  neighbors  um 
 maybe  they're  all  the  way  around  you  um 
 you  know  maybe  it's  just  a  giant  full 
 screen  like  you  know  Randy  and  marann 
 have  to  deal  with  um  then  you  know  check 
 out  this  video  cuz  this  might  be  really 
 for  you  there's  a  lot  of  vertical 
 material  I  used  in  here  so  you  can 
 really  get  a  lot  of  jam-packed  material 
 into  a  very  small  space  I'll  be  sure  to 
 list  the  names  there  if  you  want  more 
 details  check  out  the  previous  video  of 
 the  initial  planting  because  then  you 
 really  get  a  chance  to  see  what  that  um 
 what  that  looked  like  when  we  started 
 and  then  what  you  get  in  about  a  year 
 and  then  I  might  do  like  a  three-year 
 update  so  you  guys  get  to  see  what  that 
 looks  like  after  all  of  the  houses  go 
 away  from  around  you  because  you're 
 nestled  in  a  tropical  rainforest  so  I'll 
 flip  this  camera  around  Bryce  is  having 
 lunch  with  me  today  so  I'm  going  to  see 
 if  I  can  get  him  to  do  a  little  bit  of 
 work  for  me  and  uh  shoot  some  of  the 
 wide  angles  so  uh  so  you  so  the  camera 
 is  not  shaking  in  your  hand  or  and  your 
 you're  not  Blair  witching  it  so  um  all 
 right  you  guys  I'll  see  you  in  a 
 sec  is  this  thing  on  hey  you  guys  just 
 wanted  to  pop  in  real  quick  and  tell  you 
 to  like  And  subscribe  if  you  haven't  and 
 to  hit  that  notification  Bell  hey  he  are 
 you  ready  you  ready  you  want  to  check 
 out  some  plants  and  trees  there  you  go 
 thank  you  thanks  for  that  so  one  of  the 
 very  first  things  that  I  look  for  when  I 
 come  back  to  these  projects  months  later 
 is  how  well  things  have  established  how 
 well  the  plan  has  come  together  because 
 when  I  create  these  designs  I  am  there 
 is  there's  definitely  a  method  to  the 
 madness  you  know  there's  there's 
 definitely  a  sense  of  layering  and  um 
 making  sure  that  um  that  I'm  not  not 
 that  I'm  putting  everything  into  the 
 proper  placement  that  I  don't  want 
 something  to  be  such  high  maintenance 
 that  is  overgrowing  the  thing  behind  it 
 so  that  is  super  super  important  for  me 
 to  kind  of  just  always  check  in  and  make 
 sure  that  um  that  that's  happening  a 
 year  later  and  I'm  very  pleased  to  say 
 it  is  happening  on  this  project  this  is 
 a  very  um  tough  project  because  it's  not 
 a  lot  of  space  I  did  not  have  a  lot  of 
 room  to  layer  on  some  of  those  projects 
 where  I  have  large  pieces  of  property  um 
 and  I  can  really  dial  it  in  and  just  put 
 one  layer  in  from  the  next  layer  for  the 
 next  layer  and  I  have  all  the  room  in 
 the  world  to  work  and  and  budget  to 
 spend  those  projectss  are  much  easier  to 
 really  dial  that  in  but  when  I'm  working 
 in  a  narrow  space  I  have  to  be  very  very 
 diligent  on  making  sure  for  instance 
 these  gold  Mounds  that  I  have  here  these 
 gold  Mounds  easily  can  stay  at  3ot  tall 
 you  can  maintain  them  they'll  be  happy 
 at  3  foot  tall  they  do  a  nice  job  of 
 staying  a  bright  color  but  also  kind  of 
 staying  in  their  Lane  so  they're  not 
 going  to  get  crazy  big  they're  not  going 
 to  be  outgrow  my  anti-  Loop  in  quarter 
 lines  and  be  up  into  this  range  like 
 something  like  my  fire  bush  would  so  um 
 those  fire  bush  are  going  to  do  what 
 they're  meant  to  do  they're  going  to  get 
 5  foot  tall  because  why  these  pyate  Pals 
 that  are  here  which  are  outperforming 
 they're  doing  so  so  well  in  this 
 environment  right  now  they're  going  to 
 max  out  at  12  foot  in  height  but  when 
 they  do  that  they're  going  to  leave  me 
 with  about  a  five  5  and  1/2t  trunk  so 
 what  we  don't  want  to  do  is  lose  our 
 coverage  and  then  the  pool  screen  comes 
 back  and  view  we  want  this  to  be  12T  by 
 10t  yes  that's  what  Pym  date  palms  do 
 they  offer  you  a  nice  bit  of  dense 
 coverage  and  one  solid  grouping  so  it 
 kind  of  gives  you  that  instantaneous 
 buffer  but  then  again  you  do  see  that 
 trunk  at  the  bottom  unless  you  put 
 something  like  this  and  as  a  skirt  so 
 these  are  dwarf  fire  bush  and  I  use  them 
 because  they're  fantastic  thick  dense 
 buffer  they're  just  coming  out  of  their 
 Bloom  but  they  bloom  a  gorgeous  gorgeous 
 orange  and  red  flower  because  this  is 
 such  a  nice  sunny  spot  right  here 
 they're  going  to  be  very  very  happy  as  a 
 nice  swath  in  front  of  that  so  you  can 
 kind  of  see  the  wall  it's  going  to 
 create  right  with  two  things  two  plants 
 this  and  this  you  can  create  pretty  much 
 a  solid  wall  which  is  really  hard  to  do 
 in  Florida's  you  know  tropical  setting 
 normally  we  need  to  really  layer  things 
 in  to  make  that  happen  and  then  you  can 
 kind  of  just  do  that  as  a  rinse  and 
 repeat  you  know  I  can  do  that  with  the 
 these  guys  here  these  uh  trinets  do  the 
 same  thing  I  can  keep  them  at  5  foot 
 nice  and  easy  maintain  them  that  way 
 they're  not  going  to  get  Woody  or  leggy 
 keeping  them  at  that  height  and  then 
 this  tree  is  going  to  connect  with  this 
 tree  over  here  in  no  time  and  we've  got 
 this  tall  wall  of  pyme  eight  palms  and  a 
 nice  staggered  grouping  so  it  doesn't 
 look  like  a  hedge  and  then  we've  got  a 
 polished  grouping  of  these  guys  mixed 
 with  these  guys  which  is  in  the  same 
 boat  easily  maintained  at  four  or  5T 
 tall 
 and  then  you  guys  kind  of  see  the  the 
 method  come  together  the  trees  are 
 staggered  forward  and  backwards  forward 
 and  backwards  to  make  the  curve  but 
 overall  it's  just  kind  of  you  know  if 
 you  look  at  it  from  the  seating  section 
 you  can  kind  of  see  it  start  to  come 
 together  you  can  see  the  wall  happening 
 of  pyate  Palms  as  the  understory 
 plantings  start  to  start  to  flush  out 
 we've  got  some  time  before  they  become  a 
 nice  solid  grouping  but  they  will 
 absolutely  become  that  grouping  that  um 
 that  we're  looking  for  so  once  again 
 it's  you  know  it's  the  same  steps  that  I 
 use  over  and  over  again  you  know  the 
 very  first  thing  that  I  look  for  um  is 
 establishment  have  things  grown  in  have 
 they  established  well  have  they  rooted 
 in  have  they  are  they  not  competing  with 
 their  neighbor  um  so  and  then  the  second 
 thing  is  um  you  know  is  it 
 underperforming  or  overperforming  you 
 know  I'm  always  kind  of  you  know  Finding 
 even  after  all  of  these  years  I'm  trying 
 to  make  sure  that  the  plants  that  I'm 
 putting  underneath  to  create  that  wall 
 they're  not  struggling  because  they're 
 underneath  the  plant  grouping  I'm  you 
 going  to  make  sure  that  if  you're  going 
 to  plant  something  like  the  dwarf  fire 
 bush  it's  got  to  be  in  direct  sunlight 
 because  if  not  it'll  be  a  spinley  mess 
 so  it's  it's  understanding  your 
 environment  and  what  you  have  to  work 
 with  so  you  don't  want  it  to  get  too  big 
 for  the  space  you  don't  want  it  to  be 
 too  small  for  the  space  or  too  spendly 
 for  the  space  um  that's  why  I  try  to 
 give  you  guys  as  much  information  as  I 
 can  when  I'm  kind  of  giving  you  the 
 garden  tourist  so  you  can  kind  of  see 
 kind  of  behind  the  curtain  of  what  um 
 what  things  are  are  meant  to  do  you  know 
 you  can  you  can  take  very  simple  simple 
 plant  material  put  them  all  together  as 
 a  tropical  um  as  a  tropical  you  know 
 foliage  of  as  a  tropical  buffer  um  but 
 you  just  want  to  make  sure  that  you  have 
 the  right  plant  and  the  right  place  and 
 that  way  long-term  benefits  one  year  two 
 years  3  years  10  years  later  those 
 layers  are  doing  what  they  were  always 
 intended  to  do  they're  not  outperforming 
 underperforming  because  you  put  them  in 
 the  wrong  spot  so  um  so  I  do  try  to  I 
 try  not  to  harp  on  it  but  I  do  try  to 
 explain  that  so  that  way  um  if  you  guys 
 are  designing  your  own  space  and  you 
 don't  have  a  lot  of  space  to  work  with 
 hey  these  are  things  that  you  can  use 
 they're  tough  they're  strong  and  um  they 
 work  well  together  so  this  is  a  good 
 companion  grouping  of  a  plant  mix  um  of 
 things  that  I  think  that  uh  that  you  can 
 easily  use  and  then  the  last  thing  that 
 I  look  for  is  obviously  um  is  there 
 something  that's  struggling  do  we  do  we 
 have  disease  on  something  is  um  does 
 something  have  some  type  of  a  wind 
 damage  or  irrigation  damage  because  you 
 know  it's  drying  out  or  too  wet  and  in 
 this  particular  instance  we  do  so  I'm 
 going  to  have  to  get  with  Randy  and 
 MaryAnn  on  this  poor  guy  here  um  so  it 
 looks  like  this  triangle  fan  palm  has 
 gotten  some  storm  damage  and  it's 
 affected  the  canopy  this  one  was  broken 
 when  I  got  here  so  I  did  cut  this  guy 
 off  and  um  it  looks  like  the  center  and 
 the  heart  is  still  in  good  shape  so  uh 
 we  didn't  lose  the  tree  however  I  can 
 you  can  tell  um  in  looking  at  this  that 
 this  has  not  grown  this  trunk  and  then 
 if  I  move  this  I  can  see  too  much  mve 
 mement  in  this  space  which  leads  me  to 
 believe  this  area  is  just  getting  way 
 too  much  water  it's  too  moist  right  in 
 this  particular  spot  because  if  you  come 
 over  here  and  this  is  one  of  the  smaller 
 of  the  triangle  fan  PMS  that  we've  got 
 you  can  see  the  difference  in  this  this 
 size  of  this  um  this  base  this  tree  has 
 grown  in  11  months  like  it  was  intended 
 to  and  it's  very  very  it's  very  sturdy 
 it's  not  going  anywhere  so  you  know  you 
 know  so  you  want  to  check  for  those  kind 
 of  things  so  we're  going  to  cut  the 
 irrigation  back  on  that  entire  Zone  over 
 there  and  then  um  see  if  there's  any 
 breaks  or  there's  any  other  problems  for 
 that  particular  spot  but  um  that  so 
 those  are  the  things  that  you  kind  of 
 check  for  hey  why  is  that  not  doing  as 
 good  as  this  or  you  know  so  when  you're 
 in  your  garden  you  know  keep  those  eyes 
 out  because  it's  it  it  doesn't  take  long 
 for  for  something  to  happen  I  wish  I'd 
 caught  that  sooner  and  realized  that  um 
 you  know  that  area  was  a  little  bit  too 
 moist  and  we  had  a  little  bit  too  much 
 um  too  much  weakness  in  the  in  the 
 canopy  so  um  but  it's  still  alive  and  we 
 are  able  to  catch  it  and  and  hopefully 
 Rectify  it  now  so  well  you  know  that's 
 kind  of  what  I  do  on  my  inspections  and 
 I  uh  I  hope  that  was  just  enough 
 information  a  little  bit  of  a  sneak  peek 
 of  an  updated  tour  in  this  backyard  that 
 it  might  have  helped  you  guys  when 
 you're  you  know  putting  together  your 
 backyard  buffer  so  uh  do  not  forget  to 
 like  and  if  this  is  your  jam  and  this  is 
 things  that  you  like  to  do  then  don't 
 forget  to  subscribe  because  this  is  what 
 I  like  to  do  I  like  to  talk  about  plants 
 and  trees  and  Landscaping  and  you  know 
 do  my  best  to  to  educate  anybody  who 
 might  be  interested  in  that  same  field 
 so  um  share  your  comments  with  me  your 
 questions  and  I  look  forward  to  seeing 
 you  in  the  very  next  video  take  care 
 [Music]

---

 [Music] 
 so  hey  you  guys  welcome  back  so  today  we 
 are  in  Melbourne  Florida  Zone  10A  and  we 
 are  going  to  tour  a  front  yard  Garden 
 that  we  just  finished  last  week  it  is 
 absolutely  stunning  it  is  a  clean  line 
 tropical  landscape  design  Kevin 
 contacted  us  because  you  know  he  had  it 
 originally  landscaped  a  few  months  ago 
 and  I  know  you  guys  are  wondering  if  he 
 had  it  landscaped  a  few  months  ago  what 
 are  you  doing  here  well  let  me  tell  you 
 so  um  it  was  um  it  was  everything  that 
 he'd  asked  for  he'd  asked  for  specific 
 plants  and  um  some  trees  and 
 unfortunately  it  just  when  he  was  done 
 it  was  he  was  not  happy  with  it  and  so  I 
 thought  that  I  um  would  come  in  and 
 completely  redesign  it  but  once  I  got  to 
 looking  at  the  plants  and  the  trees  he 
 really  did  have  a  good  choice  of 
 material  I  mean  he  spot  on  with  a  lot  of 
 the  material  that  he  that  he  chose  for 
 the  particular  space  did  we  add  um 
 several  things  to  the  plant  grouping 
 absolutely  but  I  would  say  there's  a 
 good  50%  of  plant  material  that  we  kept 
 and  reincorporated  back  into  the 
 Landscaping  so  today's  video  is  going  to 
 be  about  proper  placement  for  plants  and 
 trees  because  it's  funny  how  you  can 
 take  and  I'll  get  Bryce  to  slide  in  a 
 before  picture  but  how  you  can  take  a 
 grouping  of  plants  put  all  the  same 
 plant  material  in  and  mesh  it  all  up  and 
 it  just  didn't  work  you  know  it  was  like 
 one  was  growing  taller  than  the  other 
 the  levels  were  off  and  it  just  didn't 
 take  hold  which  is  absolutely  absolutely 
 a  common  mistake  and  and  Kevin  wasn't 
 quite  sure  why  he  didn't  like  it  and 
 then  once  we  talked  about  it  and  walked 
 through  it  I  realized  gosh  these  plants 
 are  not  of  bad  quality  they're  you  know 
 it's  a  good  choice  for  the  location 
 versus  sun  and  shade  and  whatnot  so  it 
 wasn't  bad  for  those  reasons  they  just 
 didn't  pair  well  together  so  we  pulled 
 everything  out  of  course  amended  the 
 soil  cuz  it  needed  it  and  then  replaced 
 them  back  into  a  grouping  that  worked 
 cohesively  together  so  today's  video  is 
 going  to  be  about  what  plants  and  trees 
 work  in  the  right  spot  what  um  what's  a 
 good  companion  plant  grouping  that  works 
 together  that's  not  going  to  ca  you  tons 
 and  tons  and  tons  of  Maintenance  uh  for 
 a  space  because  the  way  it's  layered  in 
 is  the  way  it's  going  to  grow  and  be 
 easily  maintained  in  those  ways  so  I 
 hope  this  video  is  going  to  be  for  those 
 of  you  guys  who  are  getting  ready  to 
 plant  your  you  know  front  yard  Garden  or 
 backyard  garden  and  you're  you're  trying 
 to  decide  gosh  is  this  is  this  going  to 
 work  together  am  I  buying  this  one  time 
 and  one  time  only  or  am  I  going  to  be 
 replacing  it  because  it  outgrew  a  space 
 too  much  so  um  you  know  so  grab  your  pen 
 your  paper  and  I  hope  that  um  some  of 
 these  layers  really  appeal  to  you  guys 
 and  they  work  for  your  space  so  join  me 
 and  we'll  kind  of  walk  and  talk  plants 
 and  trees  so  why  don't  we  divide  this  up 
 so  it's  nice  and  clear  um  why  don't  we 
 divide  it  up  into  sections  Bryce  so 
 we're  going  to  focus  in  on  this  uh  this 
 back  section  right  behind  me  this  little 
 area  um  to  the  right  of  the  driveway 
 this  will  be  section  one  and  then  we'll 
 hit  right  by  the  front  door  um  which  I 
 love  and  that'll  be  section  two  and  then 
 left  of  the  driveway  section  three  and 
 so  on  right  behind  you  there  Bryce  will 
 be  section  four  and  so  we'll  tackle  it 
 nice  and  easy  so  if  you  guys  have  any 
 comments  or  questions  um  regarding  any 
 of  these  sections  if  you  wouldn't  mind 
 just  sticking  the  section  in  the  comment 
 that  would  be  so  so  helpful  because  then 
 I  kind  of  have  a  a  better  framework  or 
 better  understanding  of  of  what  your 
 question  is  and  and  and  relative  to  the 
 space  so  so  let's  start  over  here 
 so  um  this  is  one  of  the  trees  I  was 
 talking  about  so  Kevin  had  um  these 
 Royal  Palms  installed  a  few  months  ago 
 and  they  they  did  a  little  bit  of  a 
 struggle  but  we  did  um  pop  them  in  with 
 some  really  heavy  fertilizer  and  really 
 kind  of  got  them  you  know  back  healthy 
 and  going  again  so  I  think  that  they're 
 really  going  to  do  super  super  well  they 
 just  went  through  a  little  bit  of  shock 
 from  the  original  landscape  um  so  we 
 kept  those  obviously  in  place  we  did 
 incorporate  a  double  fox  tail  Palm 
 because  oh  my  gosh  that  front  window 
 that  front  entrance  is  just  so  stunning 
 and  I  just  I  mean  I'm  going  to  stand 
 underneath  of  this  guy  when  I  tagged  him 
 I  was  like  I'm  in  love  I  just  think  this 
 tree  is  so  fantastic  and  anytime  you 
 have  a  flat  spot  that  has  some  columns 
 on  either  side  having  something  like 
 that's  very  very  symmetrical  with  such 
 impact  I  think  it  does  a  nice  job  of  of 
 really  um  I  don't  know  of  really 
 outlining  that  area  now  um  we  have  some 
 problems  with  pipes  and  whatnot  so 
 placement  was  a  little  bit  difficult 
 with  this  guy  but  overall  I  think  he's 
 in  a  very  very  happy  place  and  I  think 
 it's  going  to  um  it's  turned  out  really 
 really  well  now  I'm  going  to  come  right 
 over  to  the  edge  and  I'll  list  what  was 
 here  originally  in  the  landscape  just  so 
 you  guys  have  a  good  visual  of  what  was 
 reused  now  this  lustrum  tree  was 
 originally  planted  by  the  in  the  front 
 um  area  the  front  Island  area  by  the 
 front  door  and  I  thought  gosh  we  needed 
 a  little  bit  of  weight  on  this  back  side 
 and  and  I  think  it's  going  to  do  a 
 fantastic  job  of  being  a  maybe  bit  8ft 
 tall  by  six  foot  wide  kind  of 
 oval-shaped  ball  back  here  I  think  it's 
 really  going  to  do  a  nice  job  of 
 anchoring  this  corner  um  so  it's  going 
 to  um  it's  just  going  to  be  a  very  very 
 controlled  type  of  end  planting  and  then 
 we  chose  to  add  his  foxtail  Ferns  and 
 again  yes  these  are  original  to  the 
 plantings  or  to  to  the  landscape  and  um 
 I  we  just  put  them  back  in  here  and  you 
 kind  of  see  how  I  have  them  in  a  nice 
 curb  they're  really  going  to  soften  just 
 the  base  of  this  I  didn't  want  anything 
 heavy  on  this  driveway  and  I  think  his 
 foxtail  ferns  do  a  fantastic  job  of 
 doing  that  now  I  did  bring  in  the 
 boulder  I  brought  in  the  blue  my 
 minds  and  I  brought  in  the  mamy  croin 
 now  I  know  if  you  guys  are  familiar  with 
 my  projects  I  love  mamy  crotin  I  love 
 what  they  do  I  love  their  petite  style 
 and  you  know  I  think  that  they  um  they 
 fit  so  many  different  spaces  because 
 they  can  handle  full  sun  and  they  stay  a 
 nice  nice  overall  small  size  so  these 
 guys  can  be  kept  two  or  three  foot  and 
 there's  not  many  plants  um  that  you  can 
 do  that  with  you  know  if  I  if  I  decided 
 to  take  those  copper  leaves  and  put  them 
 here  then  they're  going  to  completely 
 cover  this  cool  specimen  of  a  Eugenia 
 that's  here  they're  going  to  kind  of 
 come  into  this  range  and  you're  going  to 
 be  like  what's  behind  there  you  know 
 it's  um  even  though  they  can  start  just 
 the  same  size  the  Mami  croin  will  remain 
 that  size  and  they'll  be  so  easy  to  keep 
 this  height  right  here  you  can  literally 
 just  just  draw  with  these  guys  and 
 they'll  stay  where  you  put  them  will 
 they  triple  in  width  yes  my  goal  is  to 
 let  these  connect  and  become  a  swath  of 
 this  kind  of  coloration  and  they  do  a 
 great  job  of  that  so  you  have  almost  a 
 bright  impact  so  think  of  like  a 
 highlighter  line  I  want  a  highlighter 
 line  of  lime  green  with  the  fox  tail 
 ferns  a  little  highlighter  line  of  the 
 blue  my  Minds  a  little  yellow  red  and 
 orange  highlighter  line  with  the  Miami 
 croin  now  these  are  all  three  different 
 heights  these  are  three  foot  those  are 
 twoot  this  is  one  foot  so  you  can  see 
 when  they  grow  in  these  Heights  are 
 never  going  to  compete  with  one  another 
 and  that's  what  was  going  on  with  the 
 original  landscape  you  know  big  things 
 were  in  front  of  little  things  and  so  on 
 so  right  now  this  is  a  tearing  effect 
 where  it's  all  going  to  really  really 
 work  cohesively  together  so  it  goes  into 
 this  3ft  height  down  back  into  the  twoot 
 height  height  when  big  things  are  in 
 front  of  small  things  it's  kind  of  like 
 I  mentioned  here  if  we  took  something 
 like  U  like  those  copper  leaves  or  like 
 those  songs  of  India  that  are  behind  me 
 and  put  them  in  this  swath  yes  could  we 
 put  one  two  3  four  five  could  we  put 
 five  of  those  in  this  bed  and  let  them 
 connect  they  would  absolutely  connect 
 but  then  they  would  be  the  same  height 
 as  me  and  you  can  see  what  gets  what 
 gets  hidden  and  you  wouldn't  do  that  um 
 if  you  were  organized  in  a  kitchen  right 
 you  wouldn't  put  the  fridge  in  front  of 
 the  microwave  thinking  you  can  get  to 
 the  mic  wave  when  you  wanted  to 
 obviously  but  with  Landscaping  it's  hard 
 to  tell  because  when  you're  looking  at 
 plants  and  they're  very  very  new  you 
 don't  know  what's  the  fridge  and  what's 
 the  microwave  so  you're  trying  to  figure 
 out  is  this  going  to  outgrow  this  space 
 so  um  this  is  always  going  to  be  a 
 microwave  it's  always  going  to  be  small 
 this  is  always  going  to  be  a  fridge  you 
 want  to  make  sure  that  these  two  things 
 layer  properly  and  that's  kind  of  the 
 goal  behind  my  overall  landscape  is 
 really  understanding  how  plants  and 
 trees  are  going  to  grow  long  term 
 obviously  you  want  to  make  sure  sun 
 plants  are  in  the  Sun  shade  plants  are 
 the  shade  but  you  want  to  make  sure  that 
 layering  happens  plus  right  by  a 
 driveway  you  guys  want  to  make  sure  and 
 I  learned  this  the  hard  way  so  I'm  just 
 sharing  my  my  my  I  I  guess  you  call  my 
 expertise  but  also  my  failures  and 
 successes  with  you  guys  because  I  have 
 put  things  near  the  driveway  that  have 
 literally  fried  I  mean  this  is  like 
 being  on  a  driveway  you  want  to  make 
 sure  whatever  you  place  there  those 
 things  can  handle  that  bounce  back  heat 
 from  the  pavers  because  when  that  heat 
 comes  down  it's  like  back  in  the  90s 
 when  you  used  to  put  that  um  I  don't 
 know  what  was  that  like  um  tin  foil  in 
 front  of  you  so  it  bounces  back  and  you 
 get  that  crazy  Sun  totally  the  same 
 thing  these  things  get  burnt  just  like 
 you  would  get  burnt  in  the  '90s  or  I  got 
 burnt  in  the  '90s  so  um  this  is  this  is 
 something  that  heats  up  super  super 
 super  heavy  so  you  want  to  put  things 
 that  are  so  so  drought  tolerant  and 
 tough  blue  my  Minds  can  handle  that  kind 
 of  bounce  back  that  kind  of  heat  so  um 
 blue  my  Minds  fox  tail  fern 
 um  golden  Dews  Mami  croin  those  kind  of 
 things  can  handle  that  kind  of  um  that 
 kind  of  heat  you  just  you  just  kind  of 
 want  to  be  be  cautious  about  what  you 
 use  near  a 
 driveway  it  doesn't  need  to  be  are  they 
 all  different  yes  so  with  a  copper  leaf 
 it  can  be  three  or  four  foot  apart  you 
 do  not  have  to  let  those  get  super  super 
 close  in  order  for  those  to  connect 
 because  they  have  a  long  branching 
 system  they're  really  going  to  pull  out 
 and  try  to  connect  to  the  neighboring 
 plant  um  Mami  croin  because  they're 
 small  they're  more  cylinder  likee 
 they're  more  rounded  they're  not  going 
 to  reach  as  fast  so  you  do  need  to  let 
 these  individual  plants  get  taller  and 
 wider  before  they  start  to  connect  so 
 these  are  planted  fairly  close  together 
 those  little  delicate  golden  Dews  are 
 planted  fairly  close  together  look  at 
 these  threes  these  threes  will  Connect 
 into  one  plant  in  no  time  end  of  summer 
 they'll  start  to  connect  same  with  those 
 over  on  that  side  because  when  you're 
 looking  at  it  from  the  road  these  are 
 three  are  really  really  nice  and  pretty 
 and  petite  and  delicate  but  when  you  put 
 and  make  have  like  this  dark  dark 
 contrast  look  at  all  these  Reds  and 
 yellows  and  deep  tones  in  color  um  I 
 know  the  sun's  not  out  today  I  hope  you 
 guys  are  getting  this  on  camera  but  um 
 it's  it's  a  dark  dark  color  even  the 
 dark  uh  green  with  the  blues  on  the  blue 
 my  mind's  dark  tones  then  you  hit  a 
 height  bright  spot  with  these  gold 
 Mounds  if  these  three  are  connected 
 that's  just  a  pop  an  impact  of  that 
 brightness  and  then  it  goes  to  the  to 
 the  the  fals  Agave  which  is  a  structure 
 in  the  garden  next  to  a  brightness  again 
 and  then  off  to  deep  coloring  and  you 
 kind  of  see  that's  our  theme  Here  we 
 have  a  lot  of  the  light  coloring  in  one 
 location  goes  to  dark  coloring  goes  to 
 light  coloring  goes  to  light  coloring 
 and  again  a  dark  coloring  so  that  way 
 you  have  you  have  I  always  tend  to  do 
 the  the  center  pieces  of  of  a  garden  a 
 dark  or  a  light  color  whatever  whatever 
 the  focal  point  needs  to  be  for  that 
 particular  spot  this  happens  to  be  this 
 whole  Center  in  front  of  this  window  is 
 bright  and  light  in  color  and  then  the 
 two  sides  dark  really  dark  and  deep  true 
 colors  and  it's  kind  of  like  holding 
 your  hand  up  you  see  that  all  the  time 
 on  the  jewelry  um  jewelry  shows  on 
 YouTube  I  know  I  watch  those  I'm  such  a 
 nut  I  love  jewelry  but  they're  always 
 putting  their  hand  in  front  of  the  so 
 that  way  you  have  a  backdrop  and  that's 
 the  whole  idea  with  plants  and  trees  you 
 want  that  backdrop  behind  the  plant  and 
 tree  because  that's  what  makes  whatever 
 is  in  front  of  it  be  the  Showcase  so  so 
 I've  got  one  area  that  I  make  the 
 Showcase  and  I  make  the  sides  the  dark 
 tones  and  that's  what  shows  off  the 
 Showcase  I  hope  that  makes 
 sense  so  um  yeah  so  it's  a  again  it's  a 
 rinse  and  repeat  with  with  the  rest  of 
 this  we  have  the  same  m  croin  to  the 
 left  it  goes  to  these  cool  Eugenia 
 topiaries  I  mean  these  guys  their 
 structure  in  the  garden  is  just  stunning 
 at  night  they're  just  beautifully  lit  up 
 it's  just  a  gorgeous  gorgeous  ending 
 point  to  the  garden  now  I'd  like  to  say 
 that  I  was  responsible  for  bringing 
 these  in  but  no  this  is  Kevin  this  is 
 all  Kevin  he  brought  these  in  with  the 
 original  landscaper  when  they  did  the 
 Landscaping  a  few  months  ago  um  the  only 
 difference  is  is  he  had  them  in 
 different  places  so  that  one  there  was 
 off  to  a  different  side  I  think  it  was 
 off  to  where  I  have  that  lustrum  planted 
 but  I  really  wanted  it  to  flank  a 
 feature  tree  because  I  think  it  called 
 for  that  so  I  chose  them  to  flank  this 
 centerpiece  Tree  on  the  open  area 
 of  the  wall  you  guys  have  to  tell  me  if 
 you  if  you  like  that  I  personally  like 
 the  way  that  turned  out  so  we  finished 
 it  off  here  with  some  foxtail  Ferns  and 
 some  mango  croin  big  big  fan  of  this 
 Banana  Leaf  I  just  think  it  is  a  cool 
 dark  and  light  contrasting  croin  it 
 really  really  works  well  look  at  this 
 top  this  top  is  absolutely  stunning  I 
 mean  the  color  is  it  just  draws  your  eye 
 it's  just  such  a  beautiful  beautiful 
 plant  the  only  negative  to  Mango  Crohn's 
 which  is  with  a  lot  of  bigger  croin  is 
 the  bottom  foot  and  a  half  to  two  foot 
 becomes  a  becomes  Woody  so  just  like  you 
 guys  know  if  you  follow  me  I  tend  to  put 
 a  skirt  around  any  Woody  plant  so  just 
 like  this  is  starting  to  become  Woody 
 here  this  this  um  fox  tail  Fern  and  the 
 grouping  around  it  is  going  to  grow  in 
 and  become  a  twot  grouping  a  solid 
 grouping  around  that  mango  cow  just 
 imagine  putting  a  skirt  on  you  know 
 you're  kind  of  just  covering  something 
 something  up  you  know  from  the  base  so 
 these  are  going  to  create  a  nice  twoot 
 solid  skirt  to  cover  up  any  of  the 
 woodiness  or  any  of  the  unpleasantness 
 of  the  Coten  and  then  you  get  the  beauty 
 of  the  croin  without  you  know  the  the 
 the  black  eye  of  the  Woody 
 Trunks  and  then  you  know  but  it  needed 
 some  kind  of  craziness  here  because  look 
 at  these  guys  I  mean  they're  crazy  in 
 their  own  right  they're  interesting 
 they're  very  very  clean  line  and  and  I 
 think  you  guys  know  by  now  I  can't  I 
 can't  handle  too  much  clean  line  so 
 because  we  had  this  very  controlled 
 fashion  the  golden  Dews  are  controlled 
 you  know  everything  in  this  bed  is  is  um 
 has  a  lot  of  controlled  um  features  with 
 the  roundedness  of  the  lustrum  and  the 
 Eugenia  and  the  golden  Dews  I  needed 
 more  Funk  it  needed  more  of  a  of  a  mixed 
 texture  to  make  that  interesting  so 
 these  mango  croin  do  that  I  love  they're 
 wildly  they're  crazy  they're  kind  of  you 
 know  I  just  I  love  this  long  leaf  and  so 
 having  this  bed  end  with  a  little  bit  of 
 craziness  right  next  to  something  super 
 super  paired  back  super  polished  I  just 
 think  I  think  they're  going  to  make 
 great  roommates  I  always  do  I  just  I 
 love  that  contrast  together  so  it's  it's 
 about  making  it  interesting  you  know 
 it's  about  about  picking  a  paired 
 grouping  of  plants  together  where 
 they're  going  to  work  they're  not  going 
 to  outperform  each  other  but  they're 
 going  to  complement  each  other  it's  the 
 hardest  part  about  designs  it's  finding 
 what's  what's  going  to  work  in  a 
 placement  you  know  sun  shade  um  heat  um 
 location  soil  types  those  come  into  play 
 obviously  but  then  when  you  get  into  the 
 Aesthetics  it's  about  what's  going  to  um 
 what's  going  to  pair  well  together  yes 
 if  I'm  going  to  put  croin  next  to 
 something  that's  a  um  gosh  that 
 absolutely  loves  water  I  might  have  a 
 little  bit  of  trouble  with  that  so  I 
 need  to  make  sure  that  I  have  kind  of 
 that  prepared  so  you  see  I  put  the  the 
 Agave  right  next  to  the  golden  dece 
 which  can  handle  lack  of  water  the  blue 
 my  mines  that  can  handle  lack  of  water 
 the  croin  that  can  handle  lack  of  water 
 the  Eugenia  you  you  get  the  picture 
 right  so  the  whole  goal  is  this  whole 
 pairing  this  whole  family  works  very 
 very  well  together  size-wise  water-wise 
 soil  wise  and  that's  kind  of  why  I  try 
 to  I  try  to  tell  you  guys  that  when  I'm 
 doing  the  tours  because  I  know  it  I  know 
 you  probably  just  want  to  hear  about  the 
 landscape  tours  and  the  plants  and  the 
 trees  but  I  think  that  if  you  have  the 
 knowledge  of  what  works  together  then 
 you  have  a  successful  landscape  this  is 
 not  a  huge  bed  there's  a  lot  of  material 
 a  lot  of  impact  if  you  just  did  one  of 
 these  beds  in  your  own  yard  and  you 
 decide  to  pull  this  pairing  together  you 
 to  have  success  with  it  because  they're 
 all  friends  they  all  get  along  there's 
 no  drama  there's  no  drama  here  right  no 
 drama  so  that's  just  the  way  it  works 
 and  so  I  uh  I  hope  that  comes  across  so 
 we're  going  to  go  into  section  two  and 
 section  two  is  a  nice  simple  nice  clean 
 line  and  and  Kevin  and  his  family  are 
 are  very  much  that  way  you  know  they 
 really  wanted  a  clean  um  very  open  front 
 entrance  and  so  we  took  out  pretty  much 
 every  well  we  took  out  everything  that 
 was  there  and  then  um  back  filled  it  in 
 with  some  good  soil  and  brought  in  these 
 two  really  cool  King  Alexanders  now  they 
 are  going  to  be  stunning  now  but  when 
 they're  fully  matured  they  are  going  to 
 be  a  beautiful  27  28  30t  um  focal  point 
 they'll  be  right  above  the  gutter  line 
 and  just  exactly  the  staple  that  this 
 kind  of  size  of  a  front  entrance  has  to 
 me  it  it  like  it  depicts  how  these 
 columns  work  so  I  kind  of  wanted 
 something  on  each  side  of  these  columns 
 that  we're  going  to  give  them  that  same 
 bit  of  grandness  and  I  didn't  want  a  big 
 Royal  Palm  or  a  fox  tail  Palm  I  wanted 
 something  a  little  more  slender  a  little 
 bit  more  slender  and  upright  canopy  and 
 these  guys  are  totally  going  to  do  the 
 trick  especially  when  they're  um  just  a 
 tad  bit  bigger  so  um  I  think  they're 
 going  to  they're  going  to  grow  in  nicely 
 now  I  know  you  guys  have  seen  when  we 
 use  Stone  as  kind  of  like  a  border  when 
 we're  real  close  to  a  driveway  and 
 they're  happens  to  be  a  slope  um  that 
 comes  off  of  the  house  and  then  the 
 water  runs  just  the  way  it's  supposed  to 
 um  into  the  driveway  and  and  into  the  uh 
 the  front  roadway  I  worry  about  um  the 
 constant  maintenance  of  mulch  falling 
 into  the  into  the  driveway  so  I  tend  to 
 really  outline  an  area  with  stone  so 
 first  I  start  with  this  um  aluminum 
 alloy  edging  or  buty  edging  depending  on 
 what  the  client's  looking  for  this  one 
 we  use  the  aluminum  alloy  edging  and 
 I'll  be  sure  to  put  a  link  in  the 
 description  and  then  um  I  chose  a  nice 
 um  it's  just  a  river  rock  it's  a  tan 
 it's  called  a  tan  Peach  River  Rock  and 
 then  I  use  used  a  base  of  commercial 
 weed  barrier  underneath  so  that  River 
 Rock  never  never  um  never  dips  so  it's 
 just  a  very  clean  grad  area  with 
 Riverstone  weed  matting  and  an  edge  of 
 this  and  then  I  just  kind  of  find  the 
 line  that  I  want  to  follow  so  I  let  the 
 columns  be  the  line  curve  this  in 
 outline  this  that  way  when  those  heavy 
 rainstorms  happen  which  happen  off  of 
 this  roof  line  like  crazy  I  wanted  them 
 to  kind  of  have  a  stopping  point  and 
 then  this  Stone  to  kind  of  really  help 
 keep  everything  into  place  and  so  was 
 the  goal  here  it  was  just  to  make  it 
 look  a  bit  polished  you  know  a  bit  like 
 the  rest  of  the  Landscaping  this  is 
 definitely  not  a  walkable  Rock  I  get 
 this  question  all  the  time  would  you  use 
 this  for  fire  pits  and  whatnot 
 absolutely  not  this  is  a  rock  that  moves 
 and  molds  and  you  can  kind  of  see  it 
 this  is  perfect  for  this  environment 
 it's  great  for  a  landscape  bed  but  not 
 so  not  so  much  a  rock  a  walking  Rock  um 
 the  rest  of  this  is  um  to  the  back  we've 
 got  the  Petra  croin  they're  going  to  do 
 a  nice  job  of  being  a  nice  4ft  back  drop 
 again  nothing  too  thick  nothing  too 
 crazy  for  this  space  just  a  pop  of  color 
 along  that  very  very  light  coloring  of 
 the  house  so  I  think  they're  going  to  do 
 a  great  job  of  kind  of  giving  you  that 
 and  then  it's  going  to  tear  right  down 
 to  these  golden  Dees  so  these  golden 
 Dews  so  this  collection  right  here  we 
 brought  in  the  collection  of  the 
 quarterline  was  the  original  um  planting 
 it  was  over  on  the  side  and  we  just 
 grouped  them  together  and  these  all  of 
 these  eyac  Shillings  were  what  was  here 
 in  the  original  landscape  we  just 
 repurposed  them  into  into  new  places  and 
 then  it  was  kind  of  again  another  um 
 another  Rhythm  of  the  same  type  of 
 planting  on  the  left  side  of  the 
 entrance  way  we  have  um  a  nice  swath  of 
 the  the 
 stone  we  reused  his  Eugenia  oh  excuse  me 
 we  reused  his  e  Shillings  and  we've  got 
 them  on  both  sides  we  used  the  St  Petra 
 crotin  the  golden  Dews  and  of  course  the 
 King  Alexander  as  the  centerpiece 
 so  this  bed  is  a  little  bit  different 
 from  what  you  can  see  that  its  ending 
 point  so  um  they  originally  had  a  u 
 blueberry  tree  that  we  got  to  work  with 
 I  think  this  is  a  fantastic  spot  for  it 
 right  in  front  of  this  window  and  a  nice 
 little  ending  point  to  the  front 
 entrance  and  then  um  I  don't  think  we 
 saw  it  over  there  Bryce  but  we  ended  up 
 doing  a  copper  leaf  a  red  copper  leaf 
 like  you  see  here  backdrop  on  that  edge 
 um  so  we  we  replicated  that  on  this  end 
 as  well  so  this  backdrop  is  a  rojo  red 
 copper  leaf  and  and  then  um  again  a  Reus 
 all  of  their  eyex  and  their  Eugenia  so 
 and  their  blueberry  tree  so  I  think  that 
 they  all  work  really  really  well  in  that 
 particular 
 environment  so  now  we're  going  to  go 
 over  to  this  bed  now  this  bed  is 
 completely  different  um  this  bed  the 
 only  thing  that  was  in  it  were  the  two 
 Eugenia  um  they  had  some  ey  in  there  um 
 and  of  course  A  lot  of  these  plants  were 
 part  of  the  original  landscape  but  again 
 restructured  so  back  in  with  the  mango 
 croin  which  I  love  I  mean  this  is  so 
 polished  up  here  I'm  so  glad  that  we 
 brought  these  in  because  if  without 
 these  these  just  don't  don't  do  anything 
 for  you  so  the  combination  of  the  two 
 textures  I  think  are  so  fun  I  think  they 
 work  so  well  together  so  these  are  going 
 to  get  a  nice  4ft  tall  as  a  backdrop 
 these  again  down  to  twoot  and  then  these 
 guys  you  can  keep  whatever  size  you  want 
 you  can  keep  them  the  current  size  that 
 they  are  now  just  nice  and  rounded  you 
 can  let  them  triple  in  size  double  in 
 size 
 they're  just  they're  like  the  perfect 
 plant  to  keep  the  way  you  want  it 
 because  it's  a  trimmable  plant  that  can 
 stay  small  so  that's  why  I  have  a  nice 
 grouping  of  that  green  right  through 
 here  and  then  I  did  a  break  I  love 
 having  a  centerpiece  and  then  anytime 
 you  have  a  centerpiece  if  you're  able  to 
 take  something  like  the  fox  tail  ferns 
 or  gold  Mount  or  or  anything  that  that 
 changes  the  color  combination  for  you  do 
 it  because  having  these  two  on  either 
 side  what  a  mix  of  texture  where  you 
 have  the  vertical  like  fuzzy  Leaf  of  the 
 fox  tail  ferns  you  have  the  vertical  of 
 the  very  silky  kind  of  cool  um  clean 
 lines  of  the  agave  and  then  a  little  bit 
 of  color  to  the  front  I  just  think  that 
 that's  just  a  a  you  know  just  a  lovely 
 group  of  of  color  together  so  um  to  the 
 back  again  this  is  um  All  About 
 placement  that  we  were  talking  about  so 
 these  guys  I  love  love  love  and  I  know 
 you  guys  have  seen  them  and  you're 
 probably  like  okay  enough  with  the  Java 
 white  copper  leaves  I  get  it  but  I  can't 
 help  it  because  they  work  in  so  many 
 different  ways  so  these  are  the  curly 
 Java  whites  these  leaves  get  giant  but 
 these  plants  are  the  dwarf  variety 
 they're  what  they  call  the  curly  leaves 
 so  you  can  easily  keep  them  this  height 
 and  this  height  only  you  can  trim  and 
 trim  and  trim  to  maintain  them  at  a  3ft 
 or  a  4ft  height  I  love  the  idea  of  them 
 getting  into  this  range  that  way  from 
 the  road  you  have  this  bright  bright 
 color  Leaf  all  over  this  wall  then  it 
 goes  right  to  a  douse  of  green  then  it 
 goes  right  to  this  bright  variation  of 
 orange  yellow  green  um  Reds  and  then  on 
 either  side  and  it's  just  like  boom  boom 
 boom  it  just  hits  you  with  color  and 
 then  the  lime  green  coloring  of  the  fox 
 tail  ferns  I  mean  this  bed  to  me  is 
 really  going  to  come  alive  once  those 
 plants  and  all  these  plants  connect 
 right  here  and  Bryce  had  asked  a  good 
 question  about  the  plant  groupings 
 connecting  now  what's  great  great  about 
 these  Florida  plants  is  you  can  keep 
 them  individual  if  you  want  to  trim  them 
 about  every  60  days  but  if  you  want  to 
 kind  of  have  a  like  a  a  swath  of  one  one 
 type  of  plant  grouping  that  connects 
 into  into  itself  you  can  absolutely  do 
 that  you  can  let  this  grouping  of  plants 
 of  foxtail  ferns  connect  where  there's 
 no  opening  at  all  and  just  the  only 
 place  that  you  do  trim  away  is  between 
 here  in  here  keep  this  plant  species 
 separated  and  then  let  this  plant 
 species  connect  this  grouping  then  now 
 you've  got  a  swath  of  this  coloration 
 and  it  looks  like  one  plant  and  if  you 
 do  that  from  the  road  you'll  get  more  of 
 a  dense  impact  you'll  get  more  of  that 
 bright  contrasting  color  and  it's  just  I 
 don't  know  it's  just  so  stunning  so  it's 
 it's  it's  it's  all  about  preference  if 
 you  like  them  individual  awesome  if  you 
 like  them  individual  as  a  species  to  me 
 it  makes  a  big  impact  like  that  because 
 it's  it's  a  little  bit  softer  a  little 
 bit  more  natural  so  and  then  we  again 
 finished  it  off  with  their  own  eyac 
 Shillings  um  the  things  that  we  brought 
 in  were  these  beautiful  fox  tail  palms  a 
 triple  in  the  middle  and  two  singles  on 
 the  end  this  triple  Christmas  Palm  on 
 the  corner  as  a  great  backdrop  from  the 
 road  there's  a  gap  here  that  needed  to 
 be  filled  but  I  couldn't  bring  this  fox 
 tail  in  any  closer  so  I  chose  a 
 Christmas  Palm  on  that  corner  because 
 it's  going  to  fit  that  space  really 
 really  well  even  when  it's  fully  matured 
 so  and  then  of  course  as  a  backdrop  and 
 from  the  road  you  you  can  really  see 
 those  mango  croin  and  in  this  area  I 
 think  that  you  know  that  pretty  much 
 just  finishes  off  section  three  you  know 
 it's  just  it's  just  a  nice  bed  and  it's 
 really  really  going  to  grow  and  well 
 together  these  other  two  um  Royal  Palms 
 were  brought  in  from  the  previous 
 landscaper  and  I  think  they're  bouncing 
 back  doing  pretty  well  Royal  Palms  have 
 a  habit  of  doing  just  that  they  take  a 
 little  bit  of  time  to  um  to  get 
 established  but  once  they  do  they're 
 they're  pretty  substantial  trees 
 so  this  front  bed  because  we  had  quite  a 
 bit  going  on  in  along  the  front 
 Landscaping  this  front  did  not  need  much 
 so  what  we  did  was  we  brought  in  these 
 two  Royal  Palms  and  we  just  carved  out 
 two  individual  beds  in  this  in  this  Loop 
 that's  here  and  then  filled  them  up  with 
 some  of  the  same  colorations  that  we  use 
 throughout  the  rest  of  the  garden  the 
 Reds  the  yellows  and  of  course  the  blue 
 my  minds  and  I  think  that  combo  together 
 it  almost  just  feels  very  state  likee 
 where  we  have  them  so  every  bed  has  a 
 repetition  of  that  same  kind  of  color 
 pattern  but  not  just  that  it's  it's  also 
 about  the  the  layer  so  the  blue  my  mind 
 is  obviously  going  to  stay  in  that  small 
 height  the  um  the  copper  the  Java  whites 
 are  going  to  stay  smaller  than  the  red 
 copper  leaves  and  then  the  red  copper 
 leaves  will  become  the  wall  around  the 
 um  the  Royal  Palm  so  I  think  that  um  I 
 think  that  kind  of  kind  of  finishes  us 
 up  Bryce  I  think  that  kind  of  shows  just 
 the  overall  um  the  overall  placement  and 
 plan  and  like  I  mentioned  you  guys  you 
 there's  there's  a  lot  of  lovely  material 
 here  that  was  brought  in  from  the 
 homeowner  he  knew  exactly  what  he  was 
 doing  and  exactly  what  he  wanted  um  the 
 space  to  look  like  and  sometimes  it's 
 just  the  final  execution  of  figuring  out 
 what  plant  goes  in  the  right  place  that 
 really  kind  of  seals  the  deal  and  so 
 when  we  met  he  was  like  you  know  I  want 
 to  try  to  save  some  things  if  we  can 
 because  he  spent  you  know  good  money  on 
 them  and  so  I'm  so  so  so  glad  that  we 
 were  able  to  save  so  much  because  he  was 
 right  he  picked  good  material  he  picked 
 nice  things  um  again  they  just  needed  to 
 be  moved  around  and  adjusted  and  and  now 
 they're  going  to  thrive  and  they're 
 really  going  to  layer  into  what  he 
 originally  wanted  and  he's  thrilled 
 Kevin's  thrilled  and  he's  fantastic  so 
 wonderful  to  work  with  so  I  want  to 
 thank  Kevin  and  his  family  for  letting 
 us  um  obviously  and  trusting  me  to 
 create  and  recreate  a  landscape  that  he 
 had  just  had  done  I  mean  I  know  that 
 takes  you  know  a  lot  of  want  and  need  to 
 to  make  your  space  beautiful  in  order  to 
 two  companies  to  do  a  project  and  I'm  so 
 pleased  to  say  that  he  is  thrilled  with 
 the  outcome  his  mom  is  thrilled  with  the 
 outcome  everyone  has  been  so  so  very 
 complimentary  and  he  is  just  so 
 fantastic  to  work  with  Kevin  is  also  a 
 dentist  in  our  very  own  area  here  in 
 Melbourne  Florida  um  he  has  a  a  a  uh  a 
 practice  um  here  in  Melbourne  and  it's 
 called  creating  Beautiful  Smiles  if  you 
 guys  happen  to  be  in  the  area  and  you're 
 looking  for  a  good  dentist  check  Kevin 
 out  because  gosh  he's  a  doll  he's  just 
 so  wonderful  to  to  work  with  and  such  a 
 pleasure  um  to  um  to  be  around  so  but 
 overall  I  think  that  that  kind  of  kind 
 of  finishes  us  up  for  our  front  yard 
 tour  here  I  hope  that  that  gave  you  guys 
 plenty  of  information  on  placement  um  it 
 you  let  me  know  if  that's  kind  of  kind 
 of  the  instructional  things  that  you 
 might  want  to  know  about  just  kind  of 
 some  of  my  mistakes  and  some  of  the 
 things  that  I've  done  in  the  past  and 
 some  of  my  successes  um  because  that's 
 kind  of  what  I'm  hoping  to  get  across  um 
 in  these  videos  as  as  sharing  some  of 
 that  that  knowledge  with  you  because  um 
 if  there's  a  mistake  I've  made  it  in 
 landscaping  after  all  of  these  years 
 doing  it  so  yeah  pick  my  brain  if 
 there's  something  you're  dealing  with 
 then  let  me  know  and  I'm  happy  to  uh 
 answer  whatever  comments  that  I  that  I 
 can  so  if  this  is  your  jam  you're 
 looking  to  Rel  landscape  your  home  or 
 you're  struggling  with  Florida  plants 
 and  trees  then  hit  that  subscribe  button 
 because  that's  what  I  do  I  talk  about 
 plants  and  trees  talk  about  the 
 combinations  of  what  work  what  don't 
 work  and  there's  a  lot  of  that  and  um 
 what  um  and  and  just  overall  what  I  love 
 to  do  in  Florida  gardens  so  um  we  also 
 have  a  landscape  design  and  installation 
 company  so  if  you  are  in  our  area  we 
 service  from  Jupiter  Florida  all  the  way 
 up  North  to  where  we  are  now  Melbourne 
 Vieira  Satellite  Beach  area  so  be  happy 
 to  meet  with  you  look  at  your  space  see 
 what  we  can  create  we  are  a  landscape 
 design  and  installation  team  in  one  so 
 we  work  with  our  full-time  installation 
 team  inhouse  and  we  kind  of  just  come  in 
 and  recreate  the  space  for  you  all  the 
 digging  included  so  um  give  us  a  call 
 and  we'd  be  happy  to  to  meet  with  you 
 and  uh  you  guys  I'll  see  you  in  the  very 
 next  video  thank  you  so  much  take  care 
 [Music]

---

 [Music] 
 hello  gardeners  welcome  back  today  is 
 all  about  privacy  so  I'm  really  excited 
 to  share  with  you  today's  Garden  Tour  so 
 we  are  going  to  take  a  peek  at  um  some 
 buffers  that  we  did  a  couple  years  ago 
 these  are  two  nice  little  sidey  Islands 
 um  tons  and  tons  of  really  interesting 
 plant  and  train  material 
 and  have  done  the  job  they've  created 
 that  privacy  that  my  clients  marabel  and 
 Evelyn  wanted  to  see  um  you  know  you  ask 
 why  do  you  need  privacy  I  mean  some  of 
 you  guys  know  the  answer  to  that 
 question  um  but  if  you  happen  to  be  an 
 Entertainer  if  you  happen  to  really 
 enjoy  just  kind  of  spending  time  in  your 
 pool  area  or  your  backyard  area  and  you 
 kind  of  wanted  to  have  um  you  know  just 
 a  little  bit  of  softness  from  you  and 
 your  neighbor  especially  if  you're  like 
 within  a  community  like  um  like  I  live 
 and  like  Mary  Bell  and  Evelyn  live  where 
 the  houses  are  are  relatively  close  to 
 each  other  it's  so  nice  to  be  able  to  be 
 in  your  backyard  have  your  coffee  be  in 
 your  pajamas  really  enjoy  your  backyard 
 space  and  look  at  a  tropical  landscape 
 Island  not  necessarily  a  fence  and  then 
 still  have  that  privacy  um  Allin  one  so 
 that's  exactly  what  they  had  asked  me 
 for  and  I  think  I  think  we  accomplished 
 it  so  you  guys  will  have  to  let  me  know 
 what  uh  what  your  thoughts  are  but  if 
 you're  looking  to  kind  of  create 
 something  similar  to  this  in  your  um  in 
 your  future  landscape  stick  around 
 because  I'm  going  to  list  all  the  plants 
 the  trees 
 um  and  then  just  kind  of  a  little  bit  of 
 characteristic  information  about  each 
 one  of  them  so  this  is  a  nice 
 combination  of  material  that  will  work 
 together  and  just  kind  of  pay  attention 
 to  the  layers  and  how  things  were  set  up 
 so  that  way  you  don't  have  any  trouble 
 things  outgrowing  or  things  being  too 
 much  high  maintenance  because  of  of  how 
 they  were  positioned  within  the  garden 
 this  this  is  a  small  island  so  very  easy 
 to  replicate  and  I'm  telling  you  it's 
 really  doing  the  trick  and  you'll  be 
 able  to  see  for  yourself  in  a  second  so 
 follow  me  so  this  will  be  the  first 
 island  that  we  uh  we  take  a  look  at  so 
 this  particular  Island  itself  is  is  set 
 directly  across  from  the  guest 
 bedroom  and  what  they  didn't  want  is  you 
 know  they  love  having  those  windows  open 
 and  if  you  look  directly  across  Bryce 
 you'll  notice  that  those  their  bedroom 
 windows  are  directly  across  from  these 
 bedroom  windows  so  what  they  wanted  to 
 do  is  be  able  to  open  those  windows  and 
 see  something  tropical  see  something 
 with  some  foliage  and  some  coverage  but 
 also  be  attractive  so  we  didn't  take  um 
 the  island  and  move  it  way  in  front  of 
 the  window  where  it  takes  all  the  light 
 away  being  able  to  open  those  windows 
 was  important  for  them  to  have  all  of 
 this  natural  light  come  in  this  way  so 
 we  pushed  it  back  about  4  foot  off  the 
 property  line  you  can  see  over  here 
 might  be  a  little  hard  to  see  that  stake 
 right  there  Bryce  but  right  there  that's 
 the  property  line  so  we're  just  we're 
 just  angled  right  off  of  it  that  way  the 
 mowers  maintenance  can  get  right  behind 
 there  so  if  you  guys  um  I  know  everybody 
 wants  to  go  right  to  the  edge  of  the 
 line  and  set  it  ey  in  my  own  PR  in  my 
 own  privacy  buffer  but  it  makes  it  nice 
 and  easy  because  especially  within  a 
 community  like  this  it's  very  small  very 
 close  you  want  to  be  able  to  make  sure 
 that  you  can  maintain  the  backside  of 
 the  island  by  trimming  and  shaping  and 
 you  know  edging  the  beds  without  being 
 on  your  neighbor's  property  that  makes 
 for  happy  neighbors  so  you  know  that's 
 just  uh  so  this  little  island  is  set  in 
 that  location  for  that  reason  you'll 
 notice  that  the  next  Island  that  we  look 
 at  is  going  to  be  kind  of  pushed  forward 
 because  I  love  to  stagger  things  looks 
 so  good  from  the  road  but  I'm  getting  my 
 ahead  of  myself  let  me  share  with  you 
 the  plants  and  trees  we  chose  for  this 
 island  so  I  love  the  Christmas  Palm  you 
 know  you  guys  see  them  often  in  my 
 Landscapes  they  do  a  really  really  nice 
 job  of  giving  you  an  immediate  impact  so 
 you  get  that  right  off  the  bat  but  they 
 grow  to  16  to  18  foot  depending  on  the 
 location  um  this  this  is  a  perfect  size 
 because  it's  never  going  to  be  not 
 within  view  line  of  this  window  it's  set 
 back  far  enough  where  you're  always 
 going  to  see  this  big  canopy  of  fronds  I 
 love  the  triple  because  the  three  heads 
 really  allow  it  to  spread  really  allow 
 it  to  open  up  now  that  being  said  I 
 needed  something  below  that  was  going  to 
 grow  in  over  time  that  was  also  going  to 
 create  kind  of  a  shield  for  um  you  know 
 for  the  legs  or  the  the  trunks  of  these 
 trees  right  here  so  these  hibiscus  these 
 are  um  the  double  Peach  hibiscus  these 
 are  going  to  come  up  and  really  kind  of 
 give  us  some  nice  shielding  as  this  tree 
 matures  so  sorry  you  guys  they've  just 
 been  recently  cut  so  they're  not  nice 
 and  full  but  when  they're  in  bloom 
 they're  absolutely  stunning  but  they 
 love  to  be  around  four  or  5  foot  tall 
 that's  the  ideal  height  for  hibiscus  if 
 you  guys  have  those  and  they  just  kind 
 of  stopped  blooming  that's  the  reason 
 they  really  do  need  some  size  to  be 
 their  their  best  selves  so  let  them  get 
 a  little  bit  bigger  in  whatever  whatever 
 layering  that  you  have  they're  usually 
 my  backdrop  planting  so  um  and  they  do 
 like  a  a  little  bit  more  water  than  some 
 of  your  other  typical  uh  flowering 
 plants  they  do  really  really  well  so  if 
 you  got  some  low  spots  in  your  yard  like 
 where  we  have  these  right  here 
 everything's  a  little  bit  low  in  this 
 spot  this  is  almost  in  the  easement  area 
 almost  in  between  the  two  houses  so 
 water  collects  a  little  bit  here  so 
 hibiscus  are  going  to  do  fantastic 
 soaking  up  some  of  that  extra  water  and 
 then  U  Mar  Bell  and  Evelyn  they're  such 
 gardeners  so  they  always  have  a  little 
 bit  of  annuals  along  the  base  so  this  is 
 um  getting  ready  to  change  out  but  for 
 the  summer  but  everything  looks  I  always 
 keep  everything  looking  so  nice  so  on 
 either  side  roer  I  have  pygm  date  palms 
 so  these  Pym  date  palms  are  again  going 
 to  mature  out  to  that  12T  height  but 
 don't  they  offer  such  a  nice  little  bit 
 of  Shield  this  is  not  a  big  island  this 
 is  nice  and  compact  nice  and  small  keep 
 in  mind  this  is  for  a  view  line  of  a 
 bedroom  um  windows  so  this  the  goal  is 
 just  to  really  give  you  a  soft  bit  of 
 impact  right  here  it's  almost  like  a 
 little  floating  island  right  here  so 
 this  pyate  Palm  will  do  a  nice  job  once 
 it  reaches  12T  and  then  we  have  the  red 
 hot  hibiscus  on  the  corner 
 yet  not  in  bloom  and  I'll  tell  you  it's 
 hard  to  keep  these  guys  blooming  when 
 they're  this  size  so  as  these  trees 
 mature  these  trees  are  probably  you  know 
 I  would  say  tipping  out  at  9t  tall  once 
 they  reach  that  12T  height  overall 
 they're  really  really  then  you  can  let 
 those  hibiscus  get  into  this  range  and 
 oh  my  gosh  what  a  stunner  are  they're 
 going  to  be  so  um  so  yeah  they're  going 
 to  it'll  be  a  nice  a  nice  bit  of 
 layering  once  everything  fully  matures 
 and  then  we  kind  of  have  just  a  rinse 
 and  repeat  so  this  was  done  with  three 
 trees  five  plants  five  plants  five 
 plants  and  you  know  and  then  some 
 annuals  cuz  she  really  loves  flowers  so 
 we  didn't  do  anything  intermediate  down 
 below  and  we  needed  to  keep  this  island 
 very  very  narrow  so  that's  kind  of  where 
 um  where  we're  at  because  we  wanted  to 
 see  brce  if  you  just  kind  of  take  a  look 
 at  this  sweep  we  wanted  to  make  sure 
 that  we  didn't  impede  those  big  giant 
 mowers  that  come  through  this  space  so 
 these  mowers  kind  of  can  flow  in  on  the 
 inside  of  this  and  then  towards  the  back 
 and  then  again  right  through  this  five 
 foot  Gap  so  they're  able  to  come  in  and 
 come  all  the  way  around  so  the  whole 
 goal  was  to  not  really  not  really  make 
 the  maintenance  difficult  for  for  you 
 know  what  the  community  mowers  offer  so 
 um  this  bed  that  we're  going  to  pop  into 
 now  you  can  see  that  it's  popped  up  now 
 this  buffer  here  this  is  for  the  pool 
 screen  so  this  is  a  more  dense  privacy 
 buffer  this  is  something  they  look  at  on 
 the  regular  so  they  really  did  want  to 
 kind  of  have  color  they  want  to  have 
 impact  they  want  to  have  Pals  so  come  on 
 take  a  peek  of  this  one  now  what  I 
 really  liked  about  this  island  is  that 
 it's  not  right  up  on  the  property  line 
 look  at  how  much  space  from  the  screen 
 room  we  have  we  have  stone  that  leads 
 all  the  way  here  now  this  Stone  comes  in 
 at  a  grade  so  you'll  naturally  see  it  it 
 does  this  so  we  had  to  Edge  it  to  make 
 sure  that  it  doesn't  run  through  the 
 property  line  but  they  have  a  soft  grade 
 that  leads  out  to  again  this  easement 
 area  in  their  backyard  so  um  I  like  that 
 there's  this  much  room  before  you  get  to 
 the  before  you  get  to  the  plants  and  the 
 trees  because  that  means  that  this  lower 
 hedge  this  lower  color  that  you  see  here 
 they're  seeing  that  all  the  way  from 
 inside  a  lot  of  times  I  notice  um  when 
 I'm  redesigning  a  landscape  that 
 everybody  puts  everything  so  close  to 
 the  pool  screen  so  unless  it's  a  hedge 
 you  really  just  don't  see  it  you  only 
 see  the  top  upper  plants  and  trees  so 
 once  you  can  push  it  back  to  the 
 property  line  or  close  to  the  property 
 line  you'll  get  to  see  all  of  the  layers 
 so  from  looking  inside  it's  a  really 
 attractive  Island  so  so  again  I  feel 
 like  I  feel  like  my  Mark  is  pygmy  eight 
 po  so  um  these  pymmy  day  Palms  now  these 
 have  grown  up  a  good  deal  so  you  can 
 really  see  that  thickness  that  they 
 offer  I  just  love  this  fron  I  love  that 
 it's  in  the  way  as  you're  coming  between 
 this  and  the  Hibiscus  buffering  the  pool 
 equipment  there  I  think  it's  just  such  a 
 nice  nice  soft  entrance  to  the  back  and 
 then  that  Island  over  there  I  know  it's 
 mainly  meant  for  the  um  for  the  window 
 however  when  you're  in  the  pool  area  it 
 does  a  fantastic  job  of  giving  us  a 
 second  buffer  from  wherever  they're 
 sitting  because  they  have  multiple 
 seating  sections  and  a  backyard  pool  uh 
 their  backyard  pool  patio  and  if  you 
 guys  have  noticed  that  no  matter  where 
 you're  sitting  in  your  pool  depends  on 
 how  much  coverage  you're  getting  so  the 
 mere  fact  that  we  have  dual  islands  and 
 and  they're  they're  not  wrapping  the 
 whole  space  but  we're  still  able  to 
 stagger  them  in  such  a  way  they're 
 getting  quite  a  bit  of  coverage  from 
 this  those  two  islands  so  I  I  thought 
 that  worked  out  really  really  well  so 
 Bryce  want  to  pop  inside  and  share  with 
 you  guys  what  it  looked  like  um  what  our 
 clients  are  seeing  from  inside  the  pool 
 area  and  I  think  that  that  kind  of  gives 
 you  a  different  perspective  of  um  the 
 type  of  buffering  the  softness  that  it 
 offers  uh  we're  going  to  take  take  a 
 quick  peek  at  the  the  opposite  Island  um 
 I  won't  go  into  too  much  detail  on  it 
 because  again  it  is  a  very  very  simple 
 layout  but  for  those  of  you  guys  who  um 
 might  not  have  that  grade  shift  this  is 
 another  op  um  Kia  again  do  a  fantastic 
 job  of  being  drought  tolerant  so  they 
 really  will  match  the  pygmy  the 
 Christmas  and  um  the  things  that  are  in 
 this 
 island  so  this  is  coming  out  to  um  kind 
 of  just  soften  the  rear  side  of  of  the 
 um  of  the  neighbor's  house  her  pool  area 
 is  on  a  rise  so  you're  really  able  to 
 see  it  before  we  put  this  island  in 
 place  now  this  area  does  not  have  a  low 
 spot  like  the  other  one  does  so  the 
 kusia  is  a  fantastic  drought  tolerant 
 once  it's  established  it  is  a  fantastic 
 drought  tolerant  um  plant  buffer  so  you 
 can  really  really  do  well  so  all  of  this 
 material  that's  within  this  space  is 
 very  very  um  very  very  low  maintenance 
 very  very  dry  other  than  the  Hedge 
 trimming  that  obviously  you  have  to  do 
 with  the  kusia  so  as  a  centerpiece  we 
 used  a  pyate  palm  now  we  use  this  Palm 
 for  a  temporary  fix  until  the  kusia  got 
 the  size  that  they  are  now  we  really 
 don't  need  it  now  because  of  that  other 
 than  the  mere  fact  that  it's  just  an 
 attractive  final  in  the  middle  of  the 
 island  it  kind  of  softens  up  a  green 
 wall  space  so  I  think  it  does  a  great 
 job  of  doing  just  that  now  that  it's 
 matured  after  a  couple  years  the 
 Christmas  Palms  will  get  another  5  foot 
 taller  and  that's  going  to  be  ideal 
 because  at  that  point  it  will  be  over 
 top  of  where  the  Kia  hedge  is  going  to 
 be  so  you  can  see  this  Kia  hedge  is  gosh 
 I  don't  know  what  that  size  actually  is 
 Bry  probably  close  to  10  ft 
 tall  yeah  it's  it's  pretty  high  up  there 
 so  these  trees  still  have  room  to  grow 
 they're  going  to  their  canopies  will  be 
 up  over  it  but  you  can  see  how  much 
 trunk  these  trees  give  this  is  not  even 
 full  grown  and  it's  got  you  know  it's 
 you're  going  to  see  if  you  didn't  have 
 something  behind  it  you  would  see  right 
 through  it  to  the  neighbors's  uh  yard 
 and  you  can  see  her  pool  area  is  on  a 
 lift  so  it's  it  was  very  very  visible 
 I'll  see  if  I  have  a  before  picture  um 
 not  sure  if  I  do  or  not  but  you  can  kind 
 of  see  over  there  Bryce  um  of  what  um 
 what  we're  what  they  would  be  looking  at 
 directly  across  from  from  them  so  this 
 this  did  the  job  of  really  softening 
 that  whole  pool  structure  from  their 
 pool  structure  so  I  uh  I  thought  I 
 thought  we'd  just  do  a  quick  share  on 
 this  so  this  is  pretty  much  an  island 
 filled  with  two  Christmas  Palms  one 
 pygme  dat  Palm  a  row  of  kusia  and  boom 
 you're  done  I  mean  you  could  just  dress 
 it  up  with  some  small  plantings  but 
 that's  kind  of  your  choice  that's  kind 
 of  what  color  you  want  to  look  at  so  as 
 long  as  they're  drought  tolerant 
 material  then  you're  a  okay  you  know 
 you're  you're  good  to  go  this  is  a  nice 
 fix  for  a  small  space  for  a  really 
 really  well  done  and  um  well  pleasing 
 Island  centerpiece  is  the  triangle  fan 
 palom  you  know  I  love  this  graceful 
 arching  on  this  guy  I  love  the  color  the 
 softness  that  he  gives  a  little  bright 
 spot  of  um  silver  in  the  garden  I  just 
 think  he's  so  cool  and  he's  growing  so 
 so  very  well  so  the  backdrop  two  big  big 
 boys  are  Royal  Palms  those  are  such 
 stunners  they're  really  really  becoming 
 a  nice  focal  point  in  the  back  garden 
 and  the  neighbors  did  a  nice  nice  job 
 for  Mary  Bell  and  Evelyn  by  giving  them 
 a  kusia  backdrop  that  the  neighbor  has 
 there  so  we  we  kind  of  get  dual  Duty  be 
 being  able  to  borrow  their 
 landscape  and  then  we  placed  the  Rojo 
 red  copper  leaves  just  behind  the 
 triangle  fan  palm  to  kind  of  give  a  a 
 secondary  bit  of 
 brightness  and  this  a  lot  of  these 
 layers  for  this  area  it's  not  they're 
 just  not  um  for  the  view  line  I  mean  you 
 can  see  that  pool's  completely  gone  it's 
 completely  disappeared  over  there  but 
 it's  also  for  sound  um  they  enjoy  their 
 pool  area  space  just  like  they  do  and  so 
 that  means  you're  out  in  it  a  lot  and 
 having  this  privacy  having  this  sound 
 barrier  is  just  so  huge  it's  I  think 
 that's  a  big  part  of  privacy  is  not 
 hearing  what's  going  on  next  door  so  the 
 mere  fact  that  they've  got  um  their  own 
 kusia  hedge  I  know  it's  just  a  kusia 
 hedge  but  we  get  to  borrow  that  and  then 
 layer  it  in  with  some  colors  and  some 
 fronds  which  kind  of  give  give  it  a  much 
 much  more  attractive  Island  look  I  think 
 anyway  so  um  yes  so  we  got  some  dappled 
 in  quarter  lines  here  and  these  songs  of 
 India  and  I  wanted  to  bring  attention  to 
 these  songs  of  India  because  I  know  a 
 lot  of  people  let  them  just  kind  of  go 
 crazy  and  you  can  if  that's  the  look 
 that  you're  going  for  but  see  this  nice 
 little  bunching  of  them  this  gives  such 
 a  pop  of  color  from  inside  I  love  seeing 
 these  here  especially  as  those  copper 
 leaves  in  the  back  grow  up  a  little  bit 
 so  you'll  see  that  bright  dark  red  with 
 this  bright  variation  in  color  and  this 
 is  not  going  to  in  any  way  be  a  hedge 
 but  you  can  trim  it  as  Square  as  you 
 want  and  it'll  naturally  pop  out  in 
 areas  to  make  just  be  a  little  funky 
 which  I  think  is  so  cool  I  just  think 
 that's  going  to  be  so  neat  and  so  this 
 one's  still  growing  in  but  I  it's  just 
 doing  so  so 
 well  sorry  you  guys  the  camera 
 overheated  and  um  so  I  will  pick  up 
 where  we  left  off  it  overheated  just 
 like  me  I  guess  we  both  needed  the  break 
 so  it's  like  110  out  here  not  really 
 but  it  feels  like  it  so  what  I  was 
 saying  is  um  if  this  is  if  this  might 
 apply  to  some  of  you  guys  because  a  lot 
 of  times  when  you  put  a  privacy  buffer 
 in  on  your  sidey  yard  and  you're  pushed 
 back  as  far  as  as  this  buffer  is  here  um 
 the  front  of  the  buffer  is  nice  and  high 
 and  dry  but  because  it  starts  to  slope 
 back  the  rear  side  of  it  has  a  tendency 
 to  to  be  a  little  bit  more  moist  sit  in 
 water  a  little  bit  more  and  that's 
 exactly  what  happened  here  so  we  kind  of 
 have  um  a  combo  of  plants  that  like  it 
 both  ways  so  the  front  section  here  is 
 um  the  the  pyate  Palms  the  triangle 
 Palms  the  song  of  India  the  dwarf  exora 
 the  Bugan  Vila  tree  those  are  things 
 that  really  do  love  it  dry  hot  dry  can 
 handle  the  bounce  back  from  the  heat  off 
 of  this  rock  no  problem  the  things  that 
 like  it  a  little  bit  more  moist  can 
 handle  drier  temperatures  but  really  do 
 like  it  and  the  leaf  stays  nice  and 
 shiny  grows  nice  and  thick  stays  nice 
 and  full  is  things  like  the  copper  leaf 
 in  the  back  so  this  copper  leaf  in  the 
 back  you  can  see  this  angle  goes  back 
 pretty  far  um  but  those  guys  really  do 
 like  a  little  bit  of  more  more  moisture 
 and  if  you've  got  an  area  that  happens 
 to  stay  a  little  wet  stick  them  in  the 
 ground  because  they  do  a  fantastic  job 
 of  soaking  up  that  that  moisture  in 
 there  so  if  you  have  some  some  sitting 
 water  they're  an  ideal  plant  to  soak 
 that  up  and  then  the  Royal  Palms  in  the 
 back  we  all  know  Royal  Palms  absolutely 
 love  love  love  love  water  I  mean  that 
 big  giant  base  is  like  a  camel  it  holds 
 water  in  it  so  if  you've  got  an  area 
 that's  more  wet  and  you  like  the  idea  of 
 palm  trees  back  there  and  you  don't  mind 
 them  getting  some  significant  size  Royal 
 Palms  are  ideal  you  just  kind  of  want  to 
 make  sure  you  push  them  off  the  house 
 because  you  don't  want  any  of  those 
 fronds  falling  you  know  on  the  screen 
 room  or  on  the  house  cuz  they  get  nice 
 and  nice  and  big  so  um  yeah  so  this  is 
 an  island  that's  really  really  coming 
 together  um  I  really  do  think  that  when 
 you  look  at  it  from  here  when  you  look 
 at  it  from  inside  here  they  they're 
 really  getting  getting  what  what  we 
 wanted  to  accomplish  which  was  pretty 
 much  a  solid  wall  of  things  that  are  way 
 more  interesting  than  a  hedge  so  not 
 saying  the  hedges  aren't  good  but  you 
 guys  kind  of  see  that  and  then  Bryce  had 
 asked  me  a  question  while  we  were  um 
 while  we  were  on  a  break  from  the  heat 
 how  I  design  how  I  come  up  with  the 
 shape  of  an  island  and  if  you  guys  are 
 in  the  beginning  stages  of  that  and 
 you're  thinking  about  kind  of  creating  a 
 space  obviously  the  whole  goal  is  for 
 the  look  to  be  um  the  focus  to  be  where 
 the  seating  sections  are  so  if  you're 
 really  if  you're  enjoying  a  lot  of 
 seating  you  know  um  eating  out  here 
 having  your  coffee  out  here  and  your 
 backdrop  is  this  island  you  want  the 
 island  to  reflect  that  view  line  so 
 they've  got  two  three  seating  sections 
 back  here  and  then  the  the  one  in  the 
 middle  is  for  the  pool  but  so  I  wanted 
 this  whole  area  this  whole  section  to 
 kind  of  have  a  crescent  shape  that's 
 kind  of  my  favorite  shape  I  like  ovals 
 and  I  like  Crescent  shapes  to  me  those 
 the  islands  really  reflect  so  so  nicely 
 I  I  rarely  do  a  squared  off  shape  unless 
 um  unless  I  just  don't  have  room  to  add 
 curves  that's  kind  of  the  only  time  I 
 don't  do  it  but  that  Crescent  shape  is 
 kind  of  like  where  it  ovals  out  on  the 
 corners  kind  of  Narrows  in  the  middle 
 and  then  pops  out  and  rounds  out  on  the 
 corners  and  a  lot  of  times  you  guys 
 um  I  don't  make  my  Islands  even  um  this 
 one  happens  to  be  more  even  in  the  front 
 than  um  than  even  normal  but  like  if  I'm 
 trying  to  kind  of  create  a  little  bit 
 more  privacy  say  um  say  on  this  side 
 over  here  I  would  I  could  take  one 
 corner  of  the  island  and  drop  it  further 
 down  just  so  because  Mother  Nature  is 
 not  completely  balanced  completely  even 
 I  like  having  where  one  might  be  narrow 
 here  and  then  really  really  jug  like  Jay 
 out  on  the  edges  and  that  way  you  can 
 put  a  a  different  variation  of  color 
 right  to  the  front  there  and  make  it 
 maybe  one  more  tier  now  I  didn't  do  it 
 on  this  one  because  we  have  the  lake  and 
 I  didn't  want  in  any  way  take  up  any 
 kind  of  view  line  of  their  legs  so 
 that's  the  reason  why  this  one's  pushed 
 back  however  if  there  was  this  was 
 nothing  but  another  house  here  you 
 better  believe  that  I  would  have  jadeed 
 that  out  and  kind  of  even  taken  it  kind 
 of  closer  to  the  corner  of  the  pool 
 screen  but  so  if  you're  you're  thinking 
 about  doing  that  for  your  space  kind  of 
 keep  that  in  mind  because  to  me  that  um 
 it  you  know  it  makes  for  it  makes  for  a 
 great  custom  look  to  your  space  look  at 
 that  I  know  right  this  is  like  a  camel 
 this  this  guy  is 
 huge  now  he  was  a  nice  size  when  we  put 
 them  in  and  you  kind  of  see  how  we  did 
 raise  them  up  a  little  bit  even  the  back 
 all  the  back  just  so  so  that  way  they're 
 not  sitting  in  water  um  some  of  that 
 water  is  going  to  run  off  to  the  rear 
 side  of  it  but  and  that's  also  another 
 reason  why  we  want  to  make  sure  not  to 
 be  right  on  the  Privacy  um  right  on  the 
 um  the  edge  of  the  property  line  we 
 wanted  to  make  sure  that  you  know  there 
 was  still  a  little  bit  of  runoff  so  that 
 way  easy  maintenance  we  can  come  back 
 here  and  nicely  trim  this  lovely  hedge 
 and  still  be  well  within  their  property 
 line  so  um  just  kind  of  things  to  keep 
 in  mind  when  you're  creating  your  own 
 Island  we're  creating  your  own  space  so 
 but  yeah  that  pretty  much  sums  up  a 
 couple  small  islands  for  a  a  lovely 
 backyard  if  you're  in  a  subdivision  like 
 this  I  really  hope  this  kind  of  helps  I 
 really  hope  this  video  kind  of  you  know 
 might  give  you  some  ideas  and 
 inspiration  for  your  own  space  so  so  for 
 those  of  you  who  don't  know  me  again  my 
 name  is  Jennifer  beevans  and  I  have  a 
 landscape  company  here  in  Viro  Beach 
 Florida  I  am  a  landscape  designer  and  if 
 you're  looking  to  have  some  landscape 
 work  done  then  check  us  out  I'll  put  all 
 of  our  detail  and  contact  information 
 down  below  we  service  areas  from  as  far 
 south  as  Jupiter  Florida  and  as  far 
 north  as  um  via  Satellite  Beach  area  so 
 we  very  very  happy  to  uh  to  help  you  so 
 thanks  so  much  you  guys  take  care  see 
 you  in  the  next  video 
 [Music]

---

 [Music] 
 hey  you  guys  this  is  a  landscape 
 designers  backyard  garden  tour  don't 
 forget  to  like  And  subscribe  and  hit 
 that  notification  Bell  so  hey  you  guys 
 welcome  back  we  are  back  in  my  backyard 
 garden  and  it  is  summer  it  is  Flushing 
 with  so  much  new  foliage  I  cannot  wait 
 to  share  with  you  guys  just  kind  of  how 
 everything  is  is  kind  of  unfolding  and 
 growing  in  and  thickening  up  and  um  if  I 
 know  I  did  a  garden  tour  about  two  years 
 ago  and  you  you're  going  to  see  a  lot  of 
 the  things  that  have  had  have  grown  and 
 matured  and  then  you're  going  to  see  a 
 lot  of  new  things  because  as  you  know  I 
 bring  in  tons  of  new  material  every  time 
 there's  a  new  species  there's  one  I'm 
 really  really  excited  to  share  with  you 
 because  in  particular  it's  just  kind  of 
 one  of  my  favorites  um  that's  coming  up 
 this  season  so  so  uh  we'll  kind  of  just 
 walk  and  talk  plants  and  trees  if  you 
 are  thinking  about  doing  um  a  backyard 
 tropical  buffer  or  you  like  that  kind  of 
 heavy  layered  look  then  stick  around 
 because  my  backyard  is  jam-packed  full 
 of  my  favorites  my  absolute  favorites  in 
 the  garden  these  are  tough  tried  and 
 true  material  I'm  going  to  skip  over 
 some  new  material  that  I  put  in  the 
 ground  because  I  don't  know  enough  about 
 it  until  till  it  has  the  seal  of 
 approval  then  maybe  in  the  next  Garden 
 Tour  I'll  mention  it  but  overall  I'm 
 going  to  mention  the  things  that  are 
 just  a  Florida  favorite  so  hopefully  you 
 you  get  some  inspiration  you  get  some 
 excitement  and  this  gets  you  out  in  your 
 garden  for  those  of  you  guys  who  need 
 more  than  inspiration  then  um  check  us 
 out  online  I'll  put  um  all  of  our 
 website  and  contact  information  down 
 below  check  out  the  how  it  works  page  um 
 we  are  a  landscape  design  and 
 installation  company  we  have  our  own 
 in-house  installation  team  that  we  work 
 with  every  single  day  um  and  we  uh 
 transform  backyards  front  yards  sidey 
 yards  it's  kind  of  what  we  do  so  we'd  be 
 very  happy  to  meet  with  you  see  what  we 
 can  do  in  your  yard  I'll  get  Bryce  to 
 slide  in  the  um  locations  that  we  work 
 in  in  Florida  um  and  then  um  yeah  give 
 us  a  call  I'd  love  to  talk  to  you  so  yes 
 I  will  start  the  tour  let's  move  move  to 
 the  uh  the  corner  of  the  buffer  here  so 
 you  guys  might  remember  this  this  is  the 
 edge  of  my  backyard  this  is  a  very  flat 
 buffer  I  tried  to  make  it  as  interesting 
 as  possible  but  that's  the  way  my  yard 
 works  it's  pretty  narrow  so  this  is  the 
 end  of  it  my  neighbor's  yard  is  right 
 over  there  and  they've  kept  theirs 
 natural  you  know  plenty  of  GR  ass  plenty 
 of  open  space  I  guess  they  could  play 
 games  out  there  I  can  not  play  any  games 
 but  maybe  cornhole  in  mine  but  I  just 
 appreciate  more  of  this  nestled  kind  of 
 tropical  view  I  kind  of  want  to  almost 
 you  know  almost  feel  like  I'm  not  in  a 
 subdivision  you  know  kind  of  like  I'm  in 
 my  own  like  my  own  little  Retreat  so 
 that's  always  been  my  goal  for  my 
 backyard  I  have  plenty  of  seating 
 sections  out  here  we  enjoy  this  time 
 together  out  in  the  back  and  I  like  the 
 I  just  I  like  this  vibe  so  if  this  is 
 your  Vibe  you're  in  for  a  good  video  so 
 I  will  uh  start  over  this  way  this  is  my 
 kusia  this  is  my  hedge  this  is  my 
 barrier  this  is  my  wall  that's  going  to 
 be  here  um  I  love  the  way  that  it  goes 
 up  on  an  incline  like  this  it's 
 fantastic  for  drainage  cuz  all  of  my 
 Tropicals  need  a  good  deal  of  water 
 everything  gets  watered  about  three 
 times  a  week  um  but  my  kusia  of  course 
 um  does  not  like  water  that  much  so  the 
 fact  that  it's  on  the  incline  really 
 helps  to  keep  it  nice  and  healthy  and 
 happy  and  drained  so  that's  the  backdrop 
 I  don't  know  if  you  can  catch  this  Bryce 
 from  the  angle  or  not  but  if  you  guys 
 remember  that  traveler's  Palm  that  was 
 the  back  the  final  tier  in  the  back 
 along  this  BM  it  has  grown  in  so 
 beautifully  from  the  deck  it  is  such  a 
 gorgeous  feature  I  love  that  fan  I  love 
 that  look  I  trim  that  guy  maybe  twice  a 
 year  you  know  just  when  you  get  an  edged 
 front  or  you  know  that  needs  to  come  off 
 but  overall  it's  just  a  fast  growing 
 paddle  fan  I  know  it's  probably  hard  to 
 tell  because  my  Palms  are  kind  of 
 cascading  over  top  of  it  but  you  guys  if 
 you  don't  um  if  you  want  something 
 tropical  I  know  it's  it's  not 
 technically  a  palm  tree  it's  in  the  in 
 the  banana  family  but  it's  definitely  um 
 it's  definitely  a  tropical  paddled  leaf 
 look  to  me  so  and  I  love  love  love  that 
 structure  on  it  so  it  is  the  final 
 backdrop  there  um  along  with  the 
 kusia  and 
 then  these  are  Brazilian  Red  cloaks  I 
 know  they're  in  camouflage  you  get  to 
 see  these  big  giant  leaves  but  you  don't 
 um  see  any  blooms  yet  we've  got  some 
 coming  but  they  couldn't  make  it  for  the 
 video  so  that's  kind  of  tough  but  aren't 
 they  absolutely  stunning  I  just 
 absolutely  love  them  they're  really 
 going  to  town  really  really  doing  well 
 and  look  at  just  the  size  of  this  Leaf 
 so  even  that  there  no  there's  no  color 
 on  it  gosh  this  this  just  leaf  envelops 
 that  that  gorgeous  gorgeous  size  or 
 gorgeous  gorgeous  look  I  mean  um  I've 
 got  some  gold  dust  CR  right  along  the 
 front  here  and  then  of  course  anytime  I 
 do  yellow  I  tend  to  do  a  little  bit  of 
 clustering  of  the  um  Ruby  Reds  I  love 
 these  little  Ruby  Reds  I  think  they  give 
 just  kind  of  give  a  nice  little  final  at 
 the 
 base  I've  got  a  struggling  double  bottle 
 Palm  this  guy's  been  transplanted  a 
 couple  times  and  he's  not  very  happy 
 with  me  we're  not  really  on  talking 
 terms  but  I'm  really  really  hoping  that 
 he's  going  to  kind  of  cascade  and  kind 
 of  bridge  this  Gap  I  can't  plant 
 anything  in  this  um  this  easement  area 
 because  this  is  where  the  drainage  goes 
 so  the  next  best  thing  is  kind  of  taking 
 your  two  corners  and  kind  of  letting 
 them  go  over  top  of  it  so  that's  why  I 
 have  this  kind  of  on  a  slant  and  then 
 right  behind  it  I  put  two  plaria  trees 
 and  I'm  hoping  that  they're  reaching  for 
 the  Sun  so  they'll  come  together  these 
 little  frangie 
 pangies  here  so  I've  got  one  here  and 
 one  on  this  side  and  I'm  hoping  they 
 bridge  the  gap  like  this  and  then  their 
 colors  this  one  is  white  and  this  one  is 
 pink  and  I'm  hoping  they  come  together 
 and  really  give  me  kind  of  almost  like  a 
 like  an  arch  of  just  beautiful  branching 
 color  and  just  I  think  they're  going  to 
 be  cool  and  then  right  to  the  front  of 
 them  because  I  love  putting  Palms  in  the 
 way  of  everything  this  um  bottle  Palm  is 
 going  to  kind  of  do  Cascade  the  same  way 
 so  it's  going  to  be  super  cool  for  those 
 of  you  who  do  not  remember  this  big  rock 
 path  in  this  space  um  that  is  because  it 
 was  not  here  um  I  think  I  mentioned 
 before  in  the  previous  video  how  much  I 
 hate  the  grass  in  my  yard  I  can  manage 
 to  make  everything  grow  but  a  blade  of 
 grass  it  was  always  Mucky  and  wet  and 
 just  just  did  not  pan  out  well  here  so 
 no  matter  what  we  did  we  recited  so  many 
 times  so  I  finally  just  got  tired  of  it 
 I  put  in  um  the  tahan  gray  Granite 
 because  so  easy  to  walk  on  I  mean  this 
 is  the  the  best  rock  it  knits  together 
 real  well  stays  put  can  handle  we  get 
 tons  of  runoff  rain  right  here  which  is 
 why  the  grass  wouldn't  wouldn't  work  and 
 the  TSH  and  GRE  Granite  has  sorry  guys 
 technical  difficulties  our  camera 
 overheated  again  I  feel  like  I  should 
 have  an  overheat  button  myself  it's  like 
 incredibly  hot  here  um  that's  the 
 benefit  of  the  Florida  Sun  benefit 
 negative  I  don't  know  which  one  it  is 
 but  either  way  the  plants  love  it  so 
 let's  get  back  to  the  tour  now  that 
 we're  here  so  I  was  talking  about  the 
 Tahitian  gray  Granite  um  I  have  a  nice 
 path  I'll  get  Bryce  to  kind  of  do  a 
 swath  like  a  like  a  kind  of  a  little 
 swish  of  this  area  when  when  he  gets  a 
 second  that  way  you  guys  can  kind  of  see 
 it  I  have  absolutely  love  it  um  I  I  like 
 I  said  I  cannot  work  with  grass  in  this 
 area  because  of  the  slope  because  of  the 
 moisture  um  but  I  do  love  love  love  the 
 birds  we  get  a  lot  of  bird  traffic  as 
 you  can  probably  imagine  from  all  of  the 
 trees  and  they  kind  of  hammock  and  Roost 
 in  this  area  so  I  thought  if  I  made  this 
 rock  and  I  put  a  nice  barrier  underneath 
 this  rock  then  I  can  do  as  many  bird 
 houses  and  as  uh  bird  feeders  as  I 
 absolutely  want  to  so  I've  got  one 
 hanging  here  and  it  might  probably  I'm 
 not  sure  if  you  can  see  it  but  I've  got 
 one  hanging  here  kind  of  off  of  my  post 
 I'm  going  to  do  another  one  um  probably 
 on  that  post  and  then  I'm  going  to  do  a 
 couple  that  are  sitting  out  here  so  that 
 that  way  I  can  just  kind  of  feed  the 
 burls  the  birds  slash  the  squirrels  and 
 um  you  know  kind  of  let  this  whole  area 
 be  a  feeding  area  because  I  sit  and 
 spend  so  much  time  up  there  between 
 Coffee  and  Wine  and  entertaining  and 
 enjoying  this  SP  this  space  that  I 
 really  do  like  the  idea  of  having  um 
 kind  of  having  a  little  feeding  Zone 
 here  since  I  don't  have  to  worry  about 
 the  grass  and  the  weeds  from  the  seeds 
 coming  up  in  the  grass  now  I  kind  of  can 
 have  this  whole  area  to  myself  to  kind 
 of  feed  the  birds  so  that's  kind  of  a 
 kind  of  a  bonus  you  know  lemons  lemonade 
 that  kind  of  thing  um  okay  so  back  to 
 the  tour  so  I  know  we  talked  about  um 
 the  Brazilian  Red  cloaks  the  Gold  Dust  I 
 did  forget  about  the  one  pakota  that  I 
 have  here  um  it  has  one  orange  flower 
 how  I  forgot  about  the  only  thing  in 
 there  blooming  but  yeah  it's  got  the 
 orange  flower  there  and  I  only  put  one 
 in  because  it  has  a  habit  of  really 
 spreading  into  whatever  areas  it  it 
 wants  to  go  so  um  it's  going  to  kind  of 
 I'm  going  to  kind  of  keep  it  that  orange 
 in  the  midst  of  all  the  pink  blooms  so  I 
 think  it's  going  to  do  really  really 
 well  there  um  we've  got  a  coconut  palm 
 in  that  back  right  to  the  right  of  the 
 Traveler's  Palm  that's  really  really 
 going  to  town  really  got  some  size  on  it 
 the  trunk  is  enormous  it's  absolutely 
 stunning  and  what's  do  what  it  this  area 
 that  was  originally  a  full  sun 
 environment  you  can  really  see  what 
 canopy  Palms  do  for  a  space  as  far  as 
 really  helping  to  soften  those  areas 
 between  this  Palm  grouping  of  the  ureas 
 and  the  and  the  Travelers  and  this  this 
 whole  area  right  here  is  really  doing  a 
 nice  job  of  becoming  a  filtered  shade 
 garden  so  it's  allowing  these  plants  to 
 really  have  some  protection  from  the 
 harshness  of  the  sun  where  normally  this 
 is  right  on  the  edge  of  my  property  and 
 it  got  the  most  Sun  that  all  of  the 
 garden  got  it  really  really  did  um  have 
 pretty  heavy  Rays  here  so  those  of  you 
 guys  who  have  put  comments  um  in 
 previous  videos  that  said  you  know  I 
 love  your  your  your  plants  I  love  the 
 tropical  foliage  but  those  can't  handle 
 that  full  direct  West  or  heat  of  the  day 
 kind  of  sun  absolutely  they  can  but 
 carve  out  a  little  nook  if  you  really  do 
 like  those  plants  carve  out  a  little 
 Nook  put  some  canopy  trees  trees  in 
 those  areas  whether  it's  something  like 
 a  queen  CRP  Myrtle  um  that  keeps  its 
 leaves  or  um  grouping  of  palm  trees  some 
 Christmas  Palms  anything  that  kind  of 
 gives  you  an  overshadow  and  then  tuck 
 those  those  really  cool  Tropicals  that 
 you  want  into  that  garden  and  then  put 
 the  sun  plants  the  sun  loving  plants 
 right  along  the  edge  and  you  get  the 
 benefits  of  Both  Worlds  and  you're  going 
 to  see  that  in  my  garden  in  just  a 
 moment  you're  going  to  see  where  you  can 
 see  that  sun  just  right  along  the  tip 
 right  along  the  edge  or  the  the  border 
 of  the  buffer  and  then  as  you  get  into 
 the  buffer  more 
 oh  my  gosh  that's  when  you  get  those  big 
 leafed  Alas  and  all  that  tropical 
 foliage  and  some  interesting  croin  and 
 some  things  like  that  so  you  can  really 
 really  have  the  best  of  both  worlds  you 
 just  you  kind  of  need  to  create  an 
 environment  for  it  so  here  we  have  a 
 ginormous  aica  Palm  um  those  of  you  guys 
 who  may  have  seen  the  video  a  couple 
 years  ago  saw  this  um  and  it  was  you 
 know  it  was  here  but  it  was  probably 
 like  10  feet  shorter  it's  amazing  how 
 fast  it's  grown  and  what  it's  done  I 
 absolutely  love  this  clump  now  this  is 
 one  Palm  by  itself  and  it's  just  clumped 
 out  to  kind  of  you  know  maximize  the 
 size  that  we  wanted  it  to  be  we're  not 
 you  know  it  would  continue  to  Clump  but 
 about  every  couple  years  we  take  a  a 
 limb  or  two  out  to  kind  of  keep  it 
 contained  believe  it  or  not  this  is 
 contained  but  I  absolutely  love  it  and 
 it  offers  me  an  environment  to  change 
 what  I  have  underneath  of  it  if  I  did 
 not  have  those  there's  no  way  this  queen 
 Emma  would  be  this  happy  this  queen  Emma 
 really  absolutely  loves  this  spot  so  and 
 it's  it  it's  really  due  to  its 
 supporting  neighbor  here  the  ureka  palm 
 the  ureka  Palm  is  doing  its  job  by 
 really  protecting  it  from  the  harshest 
 rays  of  the  day  so  um  down  below  are 
 sesia 
 sesia  I  you  know  I  probably  can't  say 
 enough  about  sesia  it  is  my  go-to  plant 
 is  the  plant  I  use  in  so  many  of  my 
 designs  and  it's  mainly  because  I  love 
 love  love  the  skeletal  pattern  on  this 
 Leaf  it's  um  these  are  kind  of  matured 
 so  it's  a  nice  size  Leaf  about  the  size 
 of  my  hand  here  but  I  love  the  different 
 variations  you  know  look  at  how  bright 
 this  one  is  because  it's  a  little  bit 
 less  sun  look  how  this  one  is  in  more 
 sun  and  it  has  more  of  a  yellow  tone  but 
 look  just  look  at  these  two  colors  here 
 one  that's  inside  one  that's  outside  so 
 they  kind  of  give  off  a  fabulous  look 
 those  that  are  tucked  back  in  there  for 
 protection  have  more  of  that  white  and 
 green  these  have  yellow  and  green  so  no 
 matter  what  you  have  with  those  you 
 always  get  that  beautiful  detailed  line 
 I  just  love  that  look  and  if  you're 
 looking  for  a  skirt  planting  sesia  is 
 the  go-to  plan  for  that  look  at  they  I 
 don't  like  the  queen  Emma  underneath  the 
 sesia  put  them  to  the  front  and  then  you 
 only  see  this  just  fantastic  Fountain 
 spray  of  these  beautiful  leaves  but  you 
 don't  see  that  ugly  trunk  that  the  queen 
 Emma  has  no  offense  lady  but  um  these  do 
 a  great  job  of  kind  of  giving  me  a 
 blockage  and  also  they  brighten  up  that 
 dark  tone  in  the 
 color  so  I'm  just  going  to  touch  on  some 
 of  the  plants  around  the  water  feature 
 because  you  know  it's  there's  a  lot 
 going  on  in  here  if  you  guys  haven't 
 noticed  I'm  a  little  extra  when  it  comes 
 to  my  Tropicals  I  absolutely  love  just 
 to  try  a  mass  grouping  of  them  I  just 
 love  you  know  I  I  just  love  having  them 
 so  I'm  always  picking  up  little  things 
 here  and  there  the  backdrop  to  me  is  the 
 most  important  because  if  you're  going 
 to  do  anything  you  can  always  add  in  a 
 little  color  you  can  always  add  add  in 
 small  things  as  you  go  but  to  me  the 
 backdrop  of  whatever  your  focal  point 
 that's  the  most  important  part  so 
 having  the  ceria  Palms  AKA  cat  Palms  as 
 my  backdrop  is  key  that  area  gets 
 filtered  light  doesn't  get  tons  and  tons 
 of  sun  those  coconut  palms  do  the  trick 
 for  really  helping  protect  them  from  the 
 harshest  Rays  they  only  love  love 
 Morning  Sun  to  maybe  early  afternoon  sun 
 after  that  they  do  not  like  that  kind  of 
 heavy  attention  that  kind  of  heavy  those 
 kind  of  heavy  Rays  so  you  want  to  stay 
 you  want  to  keep  them  in  a  um  in  this 
 type  of  environment  and  they'll  do  very 
 very  well  without  a  lot  of  Browning  so 
 they're  nice  and  green  they  get  9  foot 
 tall  that's  their  overall  height  these 
 guys  have  been  this  size  for  ever  you 
 know  they've  just  really  matured  out  and 
 grown  in  and  I  love  their  connective 
 nature  to  me  they're  almost  like  a 
 connective  hedge  Palm  grouping  you  know 
 they  kind  of  become  a  fantastic  barrier 
 you  probably  cannot  tell  from  here 
 because  I  cannot  see  it  at  all  but  there 
 is  a  giant  pull  screen  to  the  back  those 
 of  you  guys  that  are  just  like  me  that 
 are  in  a  community  that  don't  want  to  be 
 in  a  in  a  community  where  you're  just 
 kind  of  framed  around  with  houses  all 
 the  way  around  you  this  is  a  perfect 
 screening  plant  I  use  these  and  kusas 
 like  nobody's  business  just  because  I 
 just  want  that  dialed  back  I  love  my 
 neighbors  my  neighbors  are  awesome  but  I 
 you  know  I  enjoy  my  private  space  and 
 that's  the  reason  for  those  so  that's 
 you  check  out  cat  Palms  they're  a  great 
 great  alternative  to  a  hedge  so  down 
 below  I  have  um  some  Chinese  Evergreens 
 you'll  see  there's  a  variegated  Leaf 
 there  those  are  called  the  Silver  Falls 
 I've  got  some  sloppy  painters  spotted  in 
 there  sloppy  painters  grow  notoriously 
 slow  so  if  you  like  that  um  they  are 
 croin  but  they  are  um  something  that 
 um  something  that  can  handle  pretty  much 
 good  shades  so  you  can  see  tucked  into 
 that  spot  only  along  the  edge  as  they 
 get  sun  everything  else  that  yellow  and 
 green  leaf  Bryce  um  along  those  along 
 Ong  The  Edge  they  get  sun  but  the  rest 
 of  it  in  the  back  literally  gets  no  sun 
 so  it's  amazing  that  something  can  have 
 a  little  bit  of  brightness  of  color 
 without  any  pulling  out  any  energy  from 
 that  direct  sunlight  so  pretty 
 cool 
 um  I've  got  some  giant  leopards  here 
 with  that  big  Lily  Pad  Leaf  that's  there 
 those  are  fabulous  you  can  literally 
 just  fill  all  the  way  around  this 
 waterfall  with  those  and  I  probably 
 would  have  had  I  discovered  them  years 
 ago  when  I  put  in  the  water  feature 
 those  are  so  beautiful  they  just  so 
 Alice  and  Wonderland  I  love  that  big 
 giant  rounded  Leaf  I  just  think  they're 
 so  fabulous  so  um  those  are  a  go-to  for 
 me  again  you  know  I  like  to  highlight 
 areas  with  stone  and  that's  what  this  is 
 I  have  a  little  step  down  from  my  patio 
 here  it  has  a  darker  gray  stone  a  little 
 again  it's  a  round  Stone  because  I  love 
 this  type  of  stone  but  um  and  then  I 
 have  it  outlined  with  white  stone  and 
 then  I  ended  up  coming  back  with  the 
 tahan  gray  granite  in  the  walking  path 
 so  um  it's  it's  kind  of  a  nice  mix  of 
 different  variations  of  stone  that's 
 efficient  for  my  area  and  it  all  frames 
 the  water 
 feature  right  here  is  uh  one  of  my 
 favorite  Palms  that  I  have  in  the  garden 
 this  is  a  triple  Spindle  Palm  oh  my  gosh 
 she  is  just  absolutely  stunning  she 
 really  arches  out  over  top  of  the 
 walkway  over  top  of  the  little  bit  of 
 grass  that  we  have  and  she  is  absolutely 
 stunning  with  her  triple  triple  trunk 
 features  she's  stretching  out  so  those 
 of  you  guys  who  worry  gosh  is  this  too 
 much  shade  for  this  particular  tree  if 
 you  don't  mind  the  limbs  stretching  out 
 to  find  the  sun  then  absolutely  not  they 
 do  a  fantastic  job  of  of  working  it  out 
 for  themselves  and  um  I  love  that  she's 
 really  branching  out  because  normally 
 these  limbs  are  more  compact  more 
 upright  and  you'll  notice  in  a  sunny 
 environment  that's  exactly  what  they  do 
 they're  more  like  this  straight  up  and 
 they  have  a  little  bit  of  a  tilt  but  in 
 this  environment  they're  looking  for 
 this  the  Sun  so  they're  really  branching 
 out  which  to  me  is  just  more  of  a  a  soft 
 more  of  a  a  leafy  kind  of  feel  which  I'm 
 all  about  the  jungle  Vibes  so  I  think 
 that  that's  cool  grown  very  slow  but 
 done  very  very  well  so  we  have  a  we  have 
 a  happy  pairing  here  this  is  a  bird's 
 nest  Fern  as  the  centerpiece  grouping 
 here  and  they  are  loving  loving  this 
 environment  I  mean  it  has  become  huge 
 it's  been  in  the  ground  about  three 
 years  and  very  very  very  happy  what's 
 great  about  this  particular  plant  is  it 
 does  grow  very  very  well  in  moist 
 conditions  and  Shady  conditions  but  it 
 also  if  I  were  to  dig  this  up  and  put 
 this  on  my  coconut  palm  and  tie  it  up 
 around  there  it  would  absolutely  take 
 hold  along  the  coconut  palm  and  grow 
 there  too  so  this  can  actually  if  you 
 have  an  old  ugly  palm  tree  that  you  need 
 to  cover  up  the  trunk  but  you  love  the 
 canopy  you  can  take  multiple  of  these 
 and  run  them  up  the  palm  tree  bark  and 
 then  you  have  all  this  cool  Leaf 
 coverage  on  that  I  I'll  see  if  I  can  get 
 Bryce  to  post  in  a  picture  of  what  that 
 looks  like  but  it's  a  very  very  cool  way 
 to  decorate  a  base  of  a  palm  tree  now  it 
 does  need  filtered  light  so  as  long  as 
 it  has  that  but  other  than  that  they  do 
 fantastic  intermingled  with  this  is  what 
 I  meant  about  the  pairing  this  is  a  rojo 
 Congo  and  you 
 know  as  a  landscape  designer  I  should 
 know  better  than  to  plant  things  so 
 close  together  but  it's  a  lesson  that 
 I've  never  learned  sometimes  it's  been  a 
 hard  lesson  but  in  my  own  garden  I  love 
 to  compile  plant  groupings  together  and 
 that's  exactly  what  happened  here  so 
 they're  sharing  their  same  space  and  I 
 love  the  way  it  looks  from  you  know  the 
 seating  section  so  I  I  let  it  be  I  feel 
 like  if  they're  happy  I'm 
 happy  um  another  one  who  has  outgrowing 
 its  space  but  again  because  it's  so 
 beautiful  I'm  giving  it 
 full  full  of  approval  to  live  in  this 
 spot  this  is  a  dwarf  and  I  said  yes 
 dwarf  alaa  believe  it  or  not  this  is  um 
 absolutely  a  beautiful  green  aliccia  and 
 it  is  going  to  max  out  at  4  foot  tall 
 yes  that's  what  Google  says  four  foot 
 tall  I  think  that  Google  might  mistaken 
 how  much  these  guys  have  um  a  need  to 
 live  this  guy's  been  in  this  ground  for 
 about  5  years  and  yes  he's  he's  probably 
 about  tipping  at  5  foot  now  so  um  very 
 very  happy  loves  the  spot  they  do  need 
 filtered  lights  so  they're  protected 
 between  the  Spindle  Palm  and  this  bottle 
 palm  and  those  Palms  in  the  back  this  is 
 getting  very  little  light  it's  just 
 getting  a  touch  of  of  sunlight  and  you 
 can  see  the  way  it's  growing  it's  trying 
 to  get  more  so  it's  growing  forward 
 trying  to  reach  a  little  bit  of  that  sun 
 for  these  big  giant  leaves  but  overall 
 it's  doing  very  well  down  below  I  have 
 another  um  bird's  nest  Fern  here  and 
 then  just  because  I  like  to  group 
 plantings  and  I  don't  like  to  see  bare 
 dirt  I  have  another  Chinese  Evergreen 
 agena  and  I  love  those  plants  I  love 
 their  Leaf  color  I  love  their  tropics 
 and  I  love  their  durability  that  plant 
 you  can  almost  do  anything  to  it  other 
 than  put  it  in  the  full  sun  you  can  put 
 it  in  full  shade  you  can  put  it  in 
 filtered  light  you  can  water  it  too  much 
 underwater  it  so  far  it  does  not 
 complain  it's  this  the  best  the  best 
 plant  ever  so  alema  are  not  just  for 
 indoors  they  are  for  an  outdoor  tropical 
 garden  cluster  them  together  in  a  nice 
 solid  grouping  you  will  not  be  sorry 
 they  are  so  so  cool 
 and  so  so  tough  so  um  yeah  check  check 
 them  out  um  another  plant  that  will  grow 
 right  up  a  tree  if  you  let  it  is  Congos 
 Rojo  Congos  or  um  or  green  Congos  these 
 guys  will  grow  right  up  along  this 
 bottle  Palm  it's  making  its  way  slowly 
 up  that  way  probably  because  it's 
 getting  crowded  out  by  the  Giants 
 leopards 
 ear  again  again  I'm  planting  things  the 
 way  I  like  to  see  them  which  is  really 
 group  together  um  now  I  would  be  more 
 aware  of  this  in  somebody  else's  Garden 
 who  does  maintenance  possibly  a  little 
 bit  different  or  maybe  want  more  of  a 
 streamline  tropical  look  which  I  do 
 those  two  but  in  my  particular  Garden  I 
 love  the  jungle  Forest  I  love  that 
 rainforest  kind  of  vibe  so  I  like  that 
 things  trickle  down  where  I've  got 
 height  and  I've  got  intermediate  and 
 I've  got  lower  and  then  I've  got  ground 
 cover  um  I'm  just  not  a  fan  of  mulch  so 
 I  like  to  see  that  versus  that  so  I  do 
 outline  I  do  like  a  CIS  whisp  Edge  so  I 
 outlin  it  either  with  what  you  saw  over 
 there  with  the  rock  with  the  aluminum 
 alloy  edging  or  the  buta  edging  buta 
 edging  is  my  absolute  favorite  um 
 because  I  like  that  just  I  like  the 
 curves  and  I  like  how  easy  it  is  to 
 manipulate  around  the  beds  if  I  want  to 
 change  the  bed  style  I  pop  it  up  super 
 easy  with  one  hand  and  I  can  alter  it 
 curve  it  and  move  it  and  then  put  it 
 sake  it  right  back  into  the  ground  and 
 it  holds  and  unlike  the  aluminum  edging 
 if  a  mower  hits  it  with  a  tire  if  weed 
 whacker  hits  it  it's  not  going  anywhere 
 it's  durable  you  can  literally  run  over 
 top  of  it  with  a  truck  and  it  it  stays 
 put  so  even  though  it's  pliable  and 
 flexible  it  is  definitely  definitely 
 durable  so  I  love  working  with  it  okay 
 so  off  to  the  new  things  um  so  I  had 
 some  quarter  lines  in  this  group 
 grouping  and  I  decided  to  um  try 
 something  different  I  picked  up  some 
 dwarf  alasas  that  because  my  seemed  to 
 really  love  it  in  the  garden  I  picked  up 
 some  variegated  dwarf  alas  so  hopefully 
 these  will  stay  around  4ot  tall  but 
 these  are  new  to  the  Garden  so  they're 
 not  filled  out  they're  not  full  yet  I 
 thought  about  waiting  to  do  this  video 
 until  that  happens  but  you  know  you  got 
 to  do  a  video  when  you're  camera  guy  is 
 here  and  so  I  thought  so  I  so  I  thought 
 I  would  wait  for  Bryce  because  he  always 
 knows  the  right  angles  to  get  for  you 
 guys  so  I  wanted  to  make  sure  that  um 
 that  we  got  our  backyard  tour  with  the 
 best  camera  guide  that  I  got  to  work 
 with  um  the  only  camera  guy  I  have  to 
 work 
 [Laughter] 
 with  so  um  dwarf  aloca  variegated  in 
 color  I  love  the  White  and  the  green 
 this  is  a  dark  spot  in  my  garden  so  I 
 could  have  put  regular  alices  could  have 
 put  regular  Rojo  Congos  or  the  um  the 
 giant  leopard's  ear  absolutely  would 
 I'll  be  happy  in  that  environment  but 
 what  I  wanted  was  a  a  spot  of  color  I 
 wanted  something  with  a  shot  of 
 brightness  almost  like  a  FL  flashlight 
 in  the  garden  and  they  do  that  they 
 really  give  you  that  oh  what's  back 
 there  you  know  so  when  they  grow  in  I'll 
 see  if  I  can  post  some  pictures  on 
 Instagram  or  coming  up  in  one  of  the 
 next  tours  but  I  am  really  hoping  they 
 fill  that  whole  Space  up  with  this  giant 
 kind  of  look  like  you  see  here  but  with 
 white  and  green  leaves  oh  my  God  I  will 
 be  in  love  if  that  happens  so  um  so  yeah 
 that's  going  to  be  super  super  cool  down 
 below  are  burle  marks  and  you  guys  know 
 I  love  those  because  those  stay  around 
 two  2  and  1/2t  tall  and  they  don't  take 
 up  much  space  you  can  literally  draw 
 with  them  you  can  put  one  in  like  an  s 
 factor  multiple  ones  in  like  an  s  factor 
 and  draw  and  curve  your  beds  and  outline 
 them  with  those  Burly  marks  and  they 
 stay  put  and  it's  not  something  you  have 
 to  trim  like  a  hedge  it's  a  it's  a  it's 
 a  tropical  hedge  really  so  um  I  have  a 
 very  new  um  Obi  Island  Palm  here  um  it's 
 got  just  a  couple  leaves  on  it  it's 
 really  starting  to  pop  out  out  I  really 
 love  it  on  my  sidey  yard  so  I  wanted  to 
 try  a  young  one  in  my  backyard  and  I 
 thought  between  the  two  bottle  Palms  it 
 would  be  an  ideal  spot  to  be  so  I  think 
 it's  doing  well  it's  young  it's  going  to 
 be  gorgeous  here  um  another 
 agena  this  guy  was  the  very  first  one 
 that  I  I  worked  with  he  was  the  very 
 first  one  that  I  tried  since  I  wasn't 
 quite  sure  about  those  Outdoors  it  was 
 actually  indoors  at  my  house  and  I 
 wanted  to  see  how  it  would  work  outside 
 and  I  put  it 
 in  the  first  spot  that  I  could  think  of 
 and  it's  absolutely  done  super  super 
 well  grown  incredibly  slow  so  if  you 
 really  need  something  that's  not  going 
 to  overgrow  a  spot  agena  silver  Falls 
 one  of  the  best  aginas  they're  just 
 they're  just  tough  some  Petra  croin  down 
 below  they're  very  very  happy  they're 
 young  I  just  dialed  those  in  because  you 
 know  we  have  a  lot  of  green  a  lot  of 
 white  and  a  lot  of  green  so  I  needed 
 something  with  more  variation  more  color 
 more  orange  back  here  so  that's  exactly 
 what  those  are 
 doing  again  Sania  for  that  same  reason  I 
 want  a  skirt  planting  here  about  three  3 
 and  1/2t  tall  I  need  it  to  be  dense  I 
 need  it  to  be  thick  I  need  it  to  grow 
 profusely  and  that's  exactly  what  these 
 guys  do  so  if  you  need  a  skirt  they're  a 
 fantastic  skirt  if  you  have  filtered 
 light  now  they  do  like  a  little  bit  more 
 water  than  any  kind  of  drought  tolerant 
 plant  so  they're  going  to  pair  really 
 nicely  with  um  giant  leopard's  ear 
 elephant  ears  copper  leaf  Wes  those  kind 
 of  things  fantastic  plant  grouping  for 
 sesia  because  they  all  like  the  same 
 amount  of  water  you  do  not  want  to  put 
 them  right  next  to  a  um  you  know 
 anything  that's  drought  tolerant  a 
 buganvilia  or  you  know  anything  along 
 the  lines  of  that  that  really  needs  that 
 sandy  soil  so  I  love  what  these  do  and  I 
 think  they're  going  to  um  really  be 
 happy  here  long  term  I  think  they've 
 been  in  the  ground  about  four  years  um 
 this  is  a  second  bottle  Palm  now  this 
 bottle  Palm  just  like  the  one  that  I  was 
 just  under  a  moment  ago  was  was  straight 
 up  was  you  know  going  through  the  middle 
 of  these  trees  but  just  like  it  would  in 
 any  rainforest  just  like  it  would  in  any 
 any  kind  of  natural  environment  it's 
 going  to  reach  for  the  Sun  so  it  knows 
 that  it  can't  go  straight  through  the 
 Eureka  the  coconut  the  two  triangle 
 Palms  the  I  mean  it's  it's  pretty  much 
 flanked  out  with  all  the  trees  in  the 
 middle  so  she's  so  smart  which  leads  me 
 to  believe  that  she's  probably  female  um 
 she's  actually  reaching  this  way  in  the 
 garden  she's  really  trying  to  find  the 
 Sun  and  not  knows  that  she  cannot  find 
 it  through  the  middle  of  that  canopy  and 
 um  so  I'm  getting  a  little  bit  of  a  a 
 curve  to  both  of  them  reaching  for  the 
 Sun  going  this  way  which  to  me  is 
 absolutely  just  magical  because  this 
 little  walkway  is  it's  kind  of  like  a  I 
 don't  know  a  small  little  I  don't  know 
 little  Runway  here  so  the  fact  that  you 
 can  walk  underneath  this  and  you  kind  of 
 got  canopy  trees  all  over  you  I  just 
 think  is  is  awesome  it's  I  I  just  think 
 it's  just  so  magical  Maybe  maybe  one  day 
 my  son  will  get  married  in  the  backyard 
 who  knows  and  you  know  nice  little 
 walking  path  that  would  be  so  cool  I 
 don't  know  you  guys  comment  maybe  we 
 could  talk  them  into  it 
 anyway  so  as  far  this  is  a  great  example 
 of  a  plant  trying  to  get  high  so  this 
 plant  not  in  the  wrong  way  this  plant  is 
 really  trying  to  get  above  and  out  of 
 this  plant  grouping  right  here  this  is 
 just  just  like  the  bird's  nest  ferns  um 
 it's  it's  going  to  live  perfectly  well 
 on  a  tree  so  if  you've  got  a  tree  that 
 you  just  don't  love  the  trunk  of  and 
 honestly  a  lot  of  these  trees  are  not  um 
 are  not  that  beautiful  the  trunk  base 
 it's  the  canopies  that  are  gorgeous  the 
 Roo  Congos  plant  them  all  around  the 
 base  they  will  attach  with  their  roots 
 and  and  and  pretty  much  Mount  themselves 
 themselves  right  around  the  base  and 
 work  their  and  work  their  way  up  I  just 
 think  that  they're  that's  such  a  it's 
 such  a  I  mean  it's  just  this  is  such  a 
 live  element  you  know  this  is  such 
 everything  in  the  garden  has  its  own 
 ecosystem  and  I  absolutely  love  that 
 that  it's  unfolding  and  doing  things 
 that  I  didn't  even  know  that  it  could  do 
 when  I  first  planted  it  all  those  years 
 ago  so  yeah  so  it's  very  cool 
 um  I  some  aginas  I'm  looking  to  see  what 
 I've  got  different  in  here  um  I 
 definitely  have  some  ice  tone  croin  and 
 a  little  Dash  you  might  be  able  to  get 
 in  here  I've  got  these  on  my  sidey  yard 
 and  love  them  these  are  called  The  Hope 
 Ficus  and  look  at  that  variegated  Leaf  I 
 love  this  little  heart-shaped  leaf  look 
 look  at  that  I  just  think  that's  so  cool 
 and  it's  supposed  to  be  a  shade  plant 
 but  I  do  have  it  on  the  sidey  yard  and 
 it  gets  quite  a  bit  more  sun  and  they're 
 very  very  happy  there  too  so  um  it  was  a 
 trial  it  was  one  that  I  put  in  uh  last 
 year  and  I  wanted  to  see  maybe  a  little 
 over  a  year  um  either  way  it's  not  been 
 in  the  ground  a  very  long  time  but  it  is 
 happy  it's  establishing  grows  very  slow 
 so  if  you're  looking  for  something  that 
 has  a  bright  pop  of  variegated  color  but 
 you  don't  want  it  to  you  don't  want  to 
 be  out  in  the  garden  TR  in  it  every 
 other  month  that's  one  I  probably  trim 
 it  twice  a  year  and  that's  about  it  um 
 it's  another  rubicola  Pringles  Palm  this 
 guy  is  growing  like  crazy  super  happy  he 
 is  so  protected  between  the  Chinese  fan 
 palm  and  all  the  backdrop  Palms  here 
 that  I  really  don't  have  to  worry  about 
 protecting  him  from  the  Sun  at  all  he's 
 very  very  happy  and  I  love  all  those 
 wind  wing  meal  windmill  kind  of  fronds 
 to  it  I  just  think  it's  just  so  gorgeous 
 so  PE  neat  now  they  do  have  a  small 
 trunk  but  that  trunk  is  is  just  really 
 really  narrow  compared  to  this  big  fan 
 canopy  base  so  I  think  that's  what  makes 
 them  so 
 interesting  I  just  I  love  this  big  frond 
 leaf  and  then  below  those  Bryce  I  have 
 um  bird's  nest  Ferns  and  I  just  have  a 
 collection  of  those 
 underneath  and  this  is  kind  of  what  I 
 was  meaning  about  the  burle  marks  these 
 Burly  marks  are  just  kind  of  you  can 
 just  kind  of  just  draw  with  them  so  if 
 you  need  a  little  bit  of  coverage  at  the 
 bottom  Burly  marks  are  fantastic  for 
 that  2  and  1/2t  so  dense  you  can't  see 
 through  it  so  whatever  is  behind  them 
 that's  2  and  1/2  foot  that  you  need  to 
 hide  they'll  do  the  trick  as  long  as 
 it's  partial  sun  now  this  little  Edge 
 right  here  gets  a  good  amount  of  early 
 morning  midday  Sun  you  wouldn't  know  it 
 right  now  because  the  sun's  gone  away 
 but  I'm  hoping  it's  coming  across  on 
 camera  this  is  um  this  this  little  Edge 
 gets  a  great  amount  of  sun  while 
 everything  on  the  inside  side  gets  very 
 very  little  so  that's  kind  of  what  I 
 mean  about  how  your  palm  trees  can 
 completely  change  your  your  climate  of 
 your  of  your  a  landscape  you  know  you 
 can  if  you  love  shade  material  stick 
 some  palm  trees  around  it  let  them  can 
 those  canopies  open  up  and  grow  voila 
 you  now  have  a  shade  pocket  that  you  can 
 put  all  of  your  shade  loving  plants  then 
 right  to  the  front  of  them  put  plants  in 
 that  can  handle  a  little  bit  more  sun 
 that  are  going  to  be  right  on  that  edge 
 so  you  get  the  benefits  of  Both  Worlds 
 in  in  a  in  a  area  of  your  yard  that  you 
 may  have  not  realized  you  could  so 
 sesia  Rojo  conos  and  I  have  the  lady 
 Claire  um  croons  now  these  guys  I  have  a 
 LoveHate  relationship  with  them  they're 
 very  very  happy  in  the  rainy  season  um 
 not  so  happy  at  all  in  the  cooler  season 
 they  really  Dro  their  leaves  they're  not 
 as  just  not  as  Lush  and  as  pretty  but 
 because  of  this  variegation  in  leaf  and 
 you  guys  probably  have  nailed  it  by  now 
 where  you  know  that's  kind  of  my  thing  I 
 love  that  bright  and  dark  coloration  and 
 these  guys  do  that  so  I  let  them 
 be  this  um  this  is  a  Blue  Ginger  I'm 
 going  to  show  it  to  you  because  it  has  a 
 little  Bloom  well  little  Bloom  it  has  a 
 little  Bloom  it's  kind  of  really 
 struggled  right  here  so  I'm  going  to  see 
 how  it's  going  to  do  this  year  but  it's 
 been  in  the  ground  one  year  and  look  how 
 cool  that  bloom  is  on  it  it's  a  really 
 cool  kind  of  a  spindly  Leaf  but  it 
 really  likes  the  shade  and  it's  doing 
 it's  doing  fairly  well  there  but  I  can't 
 I  can't  say  that  it's  exactly  as  I  had 
 hoped  I'd  hoped  to  have  a  pop  of  purple 
 there  and  get  a  mini  pop  so  and  right 
 kind  of  tucked  in  this  little  area  is  a 
 carpoxylon  palm  I'm  probably 
 mispronouncing  that  I  never  get  that 
 right  I  don't  know  why  that  that  tree  of 
 all  the  trees  are  so  hard  for  me  to  to 
 remember  probably  because  I  don't  use  it 
 very  often  it's  kind  of  a  a  a  finicky 
 Palm  if  you  guys  have  a  little  bit  of 
 patience  pick  them  up  young  put  them 
 exactly  where  you  want  to  and  let  them 
 really  grow  they  do  take  a  good  deal  of 
 time  um  and  they're  magnificent  when 
 they  get  big  but  from  this  point  to  a 
 big  you  know  bigger  tree  it  takes  it 
 takes  years  so  um  if  you  have  patience 
 and  you  love  that  Palm  definitely  pick 
 it  up  because  it's  well  worth  it  um  it's 
 just  not  as  much  of  a  showpiece  when  I 
 bring  it  in  initially  because  it's  it's 
 big  budget  for  a  small  tree  and  it  takes 
 a  while  so  I  try  to  give  my  clients  a 
 bigger  bang  for  the  buck  um  right  off 
 the  bat  so  but  it's  your  it's  kind  of 
 I'll  leave  it  up  to  you  guys  I'll  show 
 you  one  that  is  more  matured  that  is 
 absolutely  stunning  Bryce  if  you  take  a 
 look  right  behind  the  gardinia  tree 
 right  behind  where  that  hanging  mermaid 
 uh  figurine  is  or  statue  is  you'll 
 really  get  a  chance  to  see  that's  what 
 one  looks  like  when  it  has  some  decent 
 size  to  it  it's  got  a  beautiful  green 
 chunk  it's  got  a  bulbous  base  absolutely 
 stunning  right  above  the  roof  line  there 
 and  I  love  that  Crown  shaft  I  love  the 
 way  those  fronds  just  kind  of  pop  up 
 directly  and  then  curl  right  at  the 
 edges  no  Thorns  um  it  is  um  it  is 
 self-cleaning  but  it  does  take  a  while 
 for  those  limbs  to  drop  so  I  tend  to 
 always  nip  them  before  they  drop  but 
 yeah  so  pros  and  cons  of  that  tree 
 awesome  tree  if  you  have 
 patience  um  I've  got  a  Lobster  Claw 
 heliconia  you  can  kind  of  see  a  little 
 bit  of  the  bloom  that's  right  there  and 
 then  I've  got  um  a  hurricane 
 Palm  okay  so  the  method  to  my  madness 
 you  guys  have  probably  seen  this  um 
 I  I  know  you've  seen  this  cuz  it  was  on 
 the  other  side  so  at  the  end  of  all  of 
 my  buffers  I  love  the  idea  of  ending  a 
 buffer  but  since  you  can't  plant  right 
 in  this  middle  because  this  is  a 
 drainage  easement  and  you're  not 
 supposed  to  I  kind  of  plant  right  along 
 that  edge  and  let  my  palm  trees 
 overshadow  me  like  I'm  getting  a  picture 
 in  a 
 wedding  somewhere  you  know  like  I'm  in 
 vacation  maybe  on  a  resort  I  love  the 
 idea  of  um  of  always  ending  with  these 
 big  arching  branches  I  just  think  it's 
 so  magical  I'm  such  a  girl  okay  so  that 
 is  the  end  of  the  end  of  this  corner  and 
 I'll  come  over  here  and  kind  of  show  you 
 a  little  bit  about  what's  on  this  side 
 um  and  then  we'll  we'll  kind  of  finish 
 up  there  um  Bry  if  you  can  get  a  picture 
 of  what  this  Bloom  looks 
 like  without  the  coconut 
 shavings  so  this  is  absolutely  a 
 stunning  Ginger  it's  a  red  cone 
 Ginger  now  I  love  these  plants  now  you 
 can  see  we've  got  some  yellow  from  old 
 growth  here  that  can  absolutely  be  cut 
 off  those  um  that  yellow  happens  in  the 
 winter  we  are  just  at  the  tips  if  we 
 were  in  Palm  Beach  ideal  if  we  were  in 
 Jupiter  fine  Stewart  we're  getting  kind 
 of  iffy  the  cold  temps  um  anything  north 
 of  that  can  really  harm  these 
 cone-shaped  gingers  it  had  the  green 
 gingers  do  fine  but  the  ones  with  these 
 red  cones  or  pink  cones  they're  not  a 
 fan  of  those  cold  snaps  so  you  might  as 
 well  just  cut  them  all  the  way  down  to 
 the  base  and  let  them  flush  back  out  and 
 they  do  super  super  well  that  way  but  by 
 that  point  and  they're  blooming  again 
 more  than  likely  you're  going  to  get 
 other  cold  snap  so  you  know  it's  a  it's 
 a  hit  or  miss  with  those  guys  so  I've 
 got  some  giant  croin  that  um  these  are 
 excellent  crotin  that  have  just  kind  of 
 kind  of  I  would  say  they've  outgrown 
 their  space  but  my  hot  tub  is  right 
 there  we'll  go  up  there  in  a  second  so  I 
 like  that  little  bit  of  coverage  that 
 they  offer  but  yeah  normally  you  keep 
 them  around  four  or  5T  tall  not 
 8T  I've  got  a  little  dash  of  dwarf  exort 
 is  here  A  Very  Old  Montgomery 
 palm  and  a  very  cool  and  um  finicky 
 Madagascar  palm  um  this  actually  not  a 
 palm  but  it  is  um  it  is  just  such  a  cool 
 I  love  these  Thorns  I  love  the  look  I 
 love  the  temperament  I  love  you  know 
 what  I  love  the  attitude  I  think  it's 
 just  a  cool  like  you  know  don't  mess 
 with  me  I'm  going  to  kind  of  just  throw 
 limbs  out  my  own  way  and  just  deal  with 
 it  so  so  I  left  all  the  limbs  that  it 
 threw  out  in  in  towards  the  house  and 
 what  you  could  see  I  did  have  to  chop 
 off  a  limb  that  was  going  this  way 
 because  this  isn't  one  of  the  limbs  that 
 you  want  to  walk  under  with  the  thorns 
 and  all  um  you  it  needs  to  behave  so  um 
 but  overall  it's  a  cool  tree  has  a 
 fragrance  it  blooms  a  white  flower  loves 
 the  sun  it  is  on  an  incline  because  my 
 yard  gets  good  water  and  um  this  likes 
 dry  conditions  so  it's  in  the  cacti 
 family  so  it's  definitely  something  that 
 wants  to  remain  dry  so 
 um  it  is  on  the  higher  part  that's  why  I 
 put  it  right  along  the  wall  of  our  patio 
 because  it  everything  slopes  this  way 
 this  way 
 so  um  Ry  while  you're  down  while  you're 
 there  if  you  wouldn't  mind  just  getting 
 a  peek  of  these  Imperial 
 Vermilion  fox  tail 
 Agave  this  is  a  blue  flame  Agave  which  I 
 think  is  so 
 cool  now  I've  seen  those  big  they're 
 phenomenal  it's  very  cute  cute  now  but 
 gosh  when  it  gets  enormous  it's  going  to 
 be  a 
 stunner  and  then  we'll  work  our  way  up 
 to  the 
 patio  I've  flanked  additional  two  more 
 imperialis  so  we've  got  two  at  the  back 
 by  the  water  feature  and  two  here  I  love 
 anytime  you  have  an  entrance  way  to 
 really  funnel  your  way  in  or  out  of  that 
 entrance  way  to  kind  of  make  it  more 
 pronounced  and  I  didn't  want  anything 
 high  or  um  buffering  in  this  area 
 because  obviously  all  my  windows  to  the 
 back  of  the  house  shoot  this  way  and  I 
 want  to  be  able  to  see  the  water  feature 
 I  wanted  that  to  be  the  focal  point  so 
 having  more  Dynamic  structure  like  a 
 vertical  upright  species  that's  kind  of 
 what  I  wanted  here  and  I  didn't  want  an 
 Agave  because  you  know  it  is  a  walking 
 path  and  I  didn't  want  you  know  to  be 
 stabbed  so  but  to  give  you  guys  a  sneak 
 peek  behind  the  scenes  here  this  is  my 
 patio  this  is  what  this  whole  buffer 
 area  kind  of  helps  create  if  this  is 
 just  a  freestanding  patio  I'm  we're  up 
 elevated  up  pretty  high  so  that  means 
 that  we  are  in  a  fishbowl  here  the 
 houses  all  around  us  especially  the  one 
 behind  us  is  such  a  big  visual  that  yeah 
 you  can  see  the  screen  now  but  that's 
 exactly  what  I  mean  like  there's  a 
 there's  a  house  there  there  there  I  mean 
 and  obviously  on  E  either  side  of  us  so 
 we  are  kind  of  Faking  It  Out  fake  it 
 till  you  make  it  kind  of  thing  we  kind 
 of  surrounded  ourselves  with  all  these 
 tropical  foliage  and  all  the  plants  and 
 trees  to  kind  of  give  us  um  to  give  give 
 us  a  feel  of  of  a  resort  to  give  us  a 
 feel  like  we're  tucked  away  into  a 
 little  garden  we  are  not  when  we're  back 
 here  we're  not  in  a  subdivision  you  know 
 unless  the  maintenance  guy  shows  up  next 
 door  but  we're  not  in  a  subdivision 
 we're  we're  kind  of  nestled  in  together 
 and  you  know  it's  it's  we're  we're  at  a 
 resort  so  that's  the  goal  but  just  yeah 
 just  to  give  you  an  idea  of  what's  here 
 my  husband  built  this  nice  little 
 overhang  we  put  in  a  lovely  hot  tub  here 
 with  a  backdrop  wall  and  of  course  a  few 
 additional  palm 
 trees  and  this  oh  we  also  have  a  fire 
 fireplace  here  I  forgot  to  mention  that 
 um  this  is  our  little  sitting  area  for 
 the  two  times  a  year  that  you  know  it 
 gets  cool  enough  to  use  it  I  get  it  I 
 know  we're  in  Florida  like  we  need  a 
 fireplace  but  let  me  tell  you  when  it 
 gets  into  the  70s  and  I  know  you  don't 
 need  a  fireplace  in  the  70s  but  when  it 
 does  and  you  light  this  and  you  light 
 some  candles  outside  the  lanterns  are 
 going  the  landscape  lighting  is  going 
 there's  just  something  really  really 
 magical  about  all  of  that  soft  glow 
 light  that  between  that  and  hearing  the 
 water  all  over  I  just  think  it's  so 
 stunning  so  so  yeah  that's  that's  kind 
 of  um  this  is  kind  of  where  we  exist  um 
 we 
 do  have  these  nice  little  privacy 
 Shades  which  is  pretty  cool  I  want  to 
 share  those  with  you  guys  they're  going 
 to  be  on  my  storefront  I'm  getting  ready 
 to  put  them  on  there  because  I  think 
 that  these  things  are  so  cool  I  can 
 literally  just  I  just  put  them  in  the 
 ground  and  I  have  three  of  them  and  it 
 closes  this  area  off  so  you  have  a  nice 
 bit  of  privacy  if  you  want  to  get  in  the 
 jacuzzi  which  I  think  is  pretty 
 cool  and  then  um  let's  see  and  then  this 
 is  our  other  seating  section 
 here  so  I  know  I  pointed  up  to  this  area 
 but  this  is  a  spot  that  I  tend  to  sit  at 
 the  most  my  chair  is  right  there  I've 
 got  it  always  tilted  looking  at  the 
 waterfall  and  I'm  just  always  enjoying 
 this  little  spot  that's  here  here  and  we 
 built  this  justest  kind  of  overhead  just 
 to  give  us  a  little  bit  of  little 
 protection  from  the  the  heat  of  the  day 
 this  that  direct  sun  um  we  have  a 
 additional  wall  that  we  put  up  there  you 
 guys  may  have  seen  that  in  the  sidey 
 yard  tour  I  absolutely  love  it  it  has  a 
 little  bit  of  a  sound  barrier  and  then  I 
 put  in  a  little  water  feature  with  an 
 elephant  ear  growing  inside  to  kind  of 
 just  again  deaden  some  of  the  sound  from 
 us  and  the  neighbors  cuz  we  both 
 entertain  in  our  backyards  and  um  just 
 kind  of  you  know  helps  us  both  so  that's 
 kind  of  the  goal  so  our  our  buffer  is 
 pretty  much  a  wraparound 
 buffer  that's  growing  and  this  has  grown 
 over  years  so  this  is  definitely 
 something  that's  um  it's  a  labor  of  love 
 as  most  of  you  gardeners  know  so  if  this 
 is  um  this  is  something  that  you're  kind 
 of  wanting  to  create  for  yourself  then 
 please  ask  me  any  questions  in  the 
 comments  down  below  I'd  be  happy  to 
 answer  I  love  talking  gardening  if  you 
 haven't  noticed  I  could  go  on  forever 
 and  ever  U  so  I'll  spare  you  with  any 
 more  commentary  on  that  but  yeah  ask  me 
 any  questions  in  the  comments  and  then 
 if  you  um  if  you  need  something  more  you 
 know  if  you  need  more  than  the 
 inspiration  give  us  a  shout  we  are  a 
 landscape  design  and  installation 
 company  I  handle  all  the  design  work  my 
 husband  and  our  crew  our  in-house 
 landscape  crew  handles  all  the 
 installations  so  we  work  together  to 
 kind  of  create  the  you  know  the  full  the 
 full  project  from  concept  to  completion 
 and  we  do  front  yards  backyards  sidey 
 yards  we  kind  of  do  things  just  like 
 this  where  we  just  change  the 
 environment  to  create  um  to  create  the 
 garden  that  you're  looking  for  so  if 
 that's  what  you're  looking  for  please 
 please  reach  out  to  us  I'll  get  Bryce  to 
 put  up  the  um  locations  that  we  work  in 
 and  then  I'll  also  link  our  website  down 
 below  so  that  way  you  guys  um  can  see 
 you  know  get  more  information  on  us  so 
 other  than  that  thank  you  so  much  for 
 taking  this  tour  with  me  this  was  so 
 much  fun  I've  been  wanting  to  do  this 
 for  you  guys  I  know  you've  been  asking 
 for  it  I  hope  you  enjoyed  the  updated 
 tour  and  hope  I  didn't  go  too  fast 
 through  it  but  um  I  wanted  to  kind  of 
 get  a  lot  into  one  video  so  I  will  see 
 you  guys  in  the  very  next  video  take 
 care 
 oh

---

 [Music] 
 but  obviously  if  you  look  around  you  see 
 what  we  got  and  we  got  that  Tropical 
 Oasis  we  are  over  the  moon  everyone 
 stops  by  our  house  all  the  time  and  goes 
 who  did  your  Landscaping  I  sit  out  here 
 all  the  time  and  just  look  at  it  and 
 then  we  ended  up  with  I  think  it  was 
 total  of  18  spe  19  species  that  we  ended 
 up  having  in  the  garden  want  to 
 reiterate  that  you  can  really  do  um  and 
 have  a  beautiful  front  yard  Garden  with 
 just  a  few  species  of  plants  that  really 
 kind  of  make  it  make  it  happen  so  no 
 problem  I'm  a  big  Huger  so  of  course 
 well  hello  gardeners  welcome  back  so 
 today  we  are  going  to  do  a  front  yard 
 Garden  Tour  we  are  back  here  in  Viro 
 beach  again  Zone  10A  and  I  am  happy  and 
 excited  to  do  this  front  yard  Garden 
 Tour  because  um  you  know  I  I  get  a  lot 
 of  comments  a  lot  of  um  a  lot  of  folks 
 mentioning  that  you  know  I  love  your 
 Gardens  I  love  what  you  do  and  yes  I  do 
 use  a  lot  of  varieties  species  of  plants 
 but  this  is  one  that  we  just  finished 
 and  you  know  I  I  I  count  it  up  totally 
 and  I  think  we  are  like  a  a  species  of 
 18  that  includes  plants  ground  cover 
 existing  material  that  was  here  um  so  if 
 you're  you're  shopping  and  you're 
 looking  at  nurseries  and  there's  not 
 maybe  not  an  excessive  amount  of 
 different  varieties  of  material  I  I  love 
 this  landscape  and  my  clients  love  this 
 landscape  so  I'm  hoping  that  you  can  see 
 that  you  can  get  a  lot  of  impact  with  um 
 without  you  know  50  different  varieties 
 of  plants  and  trees  a  lot  of  it  is  the 
 way  it's  structured  the  way  it's  set  up 
 and  I'll  kind  of  go  over  that  I'll  kind 
 of  go  over  placements  and  and  the 
 reasons  why  I  put  things  where  I  put 
 them  in  case  you're  needing  some 
 inspiration  to  kind  of  create  this  in 
 your  own  garden  but  um  yeah  so  I'll  list 
 the  the  plant  count  I'll  list  the  a 
 little  bit  of  characteristics  about  the 
 plant  and  kind  of  why  I  did  what  I  did 
 and  I  hope  you  guys  really  enjoy  this 
 video  and  find  it  informative  so  let's 
 get  started  so  this  here  um  this  is  the 
 front  yard  area  and  um  I  obviously  plant 
 species  number  one  which  is  almost 
 always  on  my  list  is  the  fox  tail  Fern 
 it  is  my  anchor  tree  it  is  what  I  use  as 
 my  impact  so  we  started  off  with  um  with 
 creating  it  right  at  the  edge  of  the 
 walkway  if  your  HOA  allows  it  you  guys 
 do  not  be  afraid  to  kind  of  drag  your 
 Landscaping  all  the  way  up  to  the  edge 
 of  the  property  line  I  love  the  way  that 
 looks  now  if  it's  too  long  I  can 
 understand  not  doing  that  but  in  this 
 situation  my  clients  um  it's  it's  it's 
 relatively  very  small  front  yard  and  we 
 didn't  have  a  lot  of  width  to  work  with 
 so  when  you  don't  have  that  and  you  want 
 impact  you  bring  it  down  you  really 
 angle  it  all  the  way  down  and  kind  of 
 make  use  of  that  this  house  called  for 
 that  there's  a  lot  of  big  roof  lines 
 here  a  lot  of  big  impact  and  so  the  you 
 know  we  needed  to  to  create  that  with 
 the  Landscaping  so  we  have  um  fox  tail 
 palms  as  our  anchor  trees  we've  got 
 three  singles  here  and  they're  doing 
 doing  really  well  again  this  Landscaping 
 has  only  been  in  the  ground  I  don't  know 
 it's  maybe  maybe  a  maybe  a  month  at  most 
 so  it's  it's  uh  it's  it's  really 
 starting  to  establish  really  starting  to 
 take  hold  and  I  wanted  to  bring  it  in  or 
 bring  you  guys  in  while  it's  very  young 
 and  very  early  so  that  way  you  really 
 got  to  see  where  the  Open  Spaces  are 
 what  the  placement  look  like  and  you 
 know  had  a  little  better  ideas  so  that 
 way  if  you  tackled  it  for  yourself  you 
 had  a  little  a  little  more  knowledge  on 
 it  um  so  going  down  below  the  second 
 grouping  of  plants  this  is  probably  also 
 a  shocker  is  is  the  blaze  copper  leaf 
 species  number  two  would  be  the  blaze 
 copper  leaf  I  love  the  way  they're  going 
 to  surround  this  tree  I  wanted  something 
 with  some  height  these  guys  are  going  to 
 do  their  thing  and  come  up  into  this 
 range  and  really  kind  of  give  us  a  big 
 giant  bit  of  kind  of  weight  as  you're 
 coming  up  to  the  front  so  um  they're 
 going  to  be  lovely  and  then  I  just  did  a 
 little  little  dollop  of  um  the  blue  my 
 mind  species  number  two  excuse  me 
 species  number  three  um  and  that's  just 
 a  ground  cover  and  I  just  like  the  idea 
 that  we  have  something  that's  going  to 
 be  about  one  foot  coming  up  to  something 
 that's  going  to  be  three  three  and  1/2 
 foot  so  we  already  have  three  tiers  in 
 this  little  tiny  section  that  are  never 
 going  to  compete  with  each 
 other  and  then  coming  up  the 
 driveway  species  number  four  on  the  Java 
 white  copper  leaves  I  just  think  these 
 guys  yeah  I  mean  look  at  how  dark  we  are 
 we're  dark  dark  and  then  bright  light 
 with  these  guys  and  their  colorful  Lea 
 and  then  they're  pretty  now  but  oh  my 
 gosh  in  6  months  they're  going  to 
 be  gorgeous  just  they're  going  to  be 
 absolutely  stunners  they're  going  to 
 connect  together  as  one  soft  tropical 
 curly  hedge  and  that's  kind  of  what  I 
 wanted  here  I  wanted  a  little  bit  of 
 height  a  little  bit  of  impact  coming 
 down  this  driveway  and  that's  kind  of 
 what  they're  going  to  do  so  we're  going 
 to  we're  going  to  come  through  here  and 
 then  again  we  did  a  rinse  and  repeat  I 
 have  a  curled  grouping  of  the  uh  Blaze 
 copper  leaf  there  so  why  not  underneath 
 this  fox  tail  Palm  the  triple  fox  tail 
 palm  and  this  um  this  is  a  nice  skirt  in 
 front  of  it  to  kind  of  give  us  a  little 
 bit  of  weight  here  and  a  nice  transition 
 going  into  the  front  of  the  house  now 
 this  whole  area  is  pretty  open  I  mean 
 it's  just  pretty  much  just  to  from  the 
 street  it's  pretty  open  so  I  wanted  a 
 good  amount  of  layering  right  here  since 
 we  couldn't  do  layering  right  to  the 
 front  of  the  house  I  wanted  the  the 
 teers  to  really  start  here  so  in  species 
 number  five  these  Rojo  red  copper  leaves 
 are  going  to  do  the  trick  they're  going 
 to  get  taller  than  I  am  I  love  the  idea 
 of  them  being  a  six  foot  red  wall  right 
 here  they're  going  to  be  absolutely 
 stunners  so  six  foot  of  a  curved  rear 
 wall  they're  kind  of  running  right 
 alongside  this  curved  driveway  corner 
 and  I  think  they're  going  to  just  be  a 
 nice  backdrop  which  will  show  off  these 
 beautiful  legs  on  this  triple  triple  fox 
 tail  Palm  so  a  nice  nice  rounded  curve 
 bed  and  then  these  Blaze  copper  leaves 
 curl  the  curve  the  opposite  way  so  they 
 round  here  while  these  round  this  way 
 and  these  kind  of  round  this  way  you 
 kind  of  see  the  method  how  things  are 
 just  they  kind  of  one  goes  goes  into  the 
 next  group  and  into  the  next  grouping 
 but  what  kind  of  makes  them 
 distinguished  is  the  height  that  those 
 are  going  to  be  when  they're  matured  so 
 these  are  always  going  to  be  lower  than 
 these  so  that's  kind  of  so  and  those  are 
 always  going  to  be  lower  than  those  so 
 we  have  a  low  medium  high  and  then  the 
 impact  that  we're  actually  featuring  so 
 these  are  like  they're  supportive 
 characters  in  the  in  the  play  then  this 
 is  got  this  is  the  star  so  so  now  we 
 have  that  SWA  coming  up  to  this  area  in 
 the  blue  my  mind  and  I  think  can  we 
 count  this  species 
 already  yep  so  this  is  a  kind  of  a  curve 
 swath  here  and  then  we  chose  I  needed 
 another  another  bright  kind  of  coloring 
 just  like  the  jao  white  copper  leaves 
 cuz  I  really  like  to  do  um  dark  light 
 dark  light  so  as  things  mature  and  even 
 even  though  the  heights  are  different 
 it's  really  gosh  that's  an  interesting 
 look  it  feels  like  there's  tons  of 
 different  plant  varieties  when  there's 
 not  just  because  you  go  it's  like  high 
 low  high  low  but  it's  bright  and  dark 
 bright  and  dark  so  I  needed  something 
 bright  um  but  I  couldn't  do  Java  whites 
 here  because  Java  whites  as  wonderful  as 
 they  are  they  do  what  they're  intended 
 to  do  which  is  get  nice  thick  big  3ot 
 4ot  in  range  I  needed  something  that 
 could  easily  be  kept  at  twoot  tall  so  I 
 ended  up  going  with  variegated  aracas 
 they're  a  variegated  Leaf  just  like  the 
 Jaba  whites  but  they  can  keep  those 
 almost  like  a  twft  hedge  right  here  and 
 I  needed  something  to  be  very  controlled 
 so  it  didn't  soften  or  didn't  take  away 
 from  that  really  cool  rustic  wall  back 
 there  I  just  think  that  think  that  was 
 cool  and  then  we  had  enough  impact  we 
 didn't  need  anything  high  and  too  crazy 
 around  this  cool  FAL  sagave  and  that  is 
 species  number  seven  so  I  mean  gosh  I 
 just  I  they're  just  awesome  that's  why  I 
 use  them  they  just  kind  of  they  always 
 make  me  look  good  so  um  but  I  don't  need 
 anything  Dynamic  anything  really  heavy 
 what  I  really  need  is  a  very  controlled 
 bedding  for  those  so  it  looks  like  they 
 just  kind  of  pop  up  out  of  the  bedding 
 like  a  like  the  focal  point  that  they 
 are  I  use  them  for  a  structure  in  the 
 garden  they  bring  attention  to  an  area 
 without  completely  blocking  it  so  I 
 didn't  have  any  trouble  putting  them  in 
 front  of  this  wall  and  feel  like  it's 
 taken  away  from  it  at  all  so  everything 
 around  it  like  the  blue  my  Minds  the 
 trinets  um  and  even  the  golden  Dews  are 
 all  going  to  be  fairly  small  underneath 
 of  this  so  I  don't  want  to  miss  out  I've 
 got  two  of  these  Jasmine  trees  right  in 
 this  corner  um  or  tree  Jasmine  excuse  me 
 right  in  this  corner  to  the  back  um 
 those  were  part  of  the  original  Builder 
 package  but  I'm  going  to  include  them  I 
 just  I  just  repurposed  them  into  this 
 into  this  bed  um  and  that  species  eight 
 so  um  and  then  we're  coming  over  here  to 
 along  the  wall  again  nothing  too  big  I 
 wanted  it  to  stay  nice  and  Compact  and 
 small  Burly  marks  do  that  for  me  but  I 
 really  needed  a  shot  of  dark  coloration 
 so  those  Burly  marks  are  going  to  stay 
 small  stay  compact  I  love  how  nice  and 
 rounded  they  are  um  so  they're  really 
 going  to  be  in  that  two  two  and  1/2  foot 
 range  and  kind  of  give  us  some  impact 
 and  then  to  Draw  It  Forward  I  brought  in 
 the  farfugium  species  number  10  so  um 
 the  farfugium  there's  only  one  and  so 
 you  guys  I  feel  like  I'm  I'm  adding 
 these  in  but  there's  like  two  and  one 
 and  and  you  know  we're  we're  getting  a 
 lot  of  that  so  kind  of  keep  that  in  mind 
 you  can  really  dial  this  down  to  a 
 handful  of  species  but  and  just  because 
 I  want  to  incorporate  a  little  bit  of 
 something  different  you  know  we  had  one 
 and  two  of  of  certain  things  so  the 
 farfugium  is  going  to  get  a  little  bit 
 bigger  but  love  triangular  formations 
 and  it's  going  to  take  a  little  bit  of 
 time  but  I  love  how  those  two  are  going 
 to  be  nice  and  solid  in  the  back  and 
 then  we've  got  something  a  little  bit 
 that's  going  to  be  a  little  bit  more 
 wild  behind  this  bottle  Palm  so  those 
 those  um  big  round  leaves  they're  going 
 to  stem  out  and  kind  of  crawl  around  the 
 base  of  the  bottle  Palm  which  will  be 
 really  really  cool  when  that  happens  so 
 I  think  that's  going  to  be  so  so  cool 
 the  next  one  so  this  is  my  little  bottle 
 Palm  he's  really  really  starting  to  take 
 off  he's  very  young  when  we  put  him  in 
 last  month  and  I  can  see  that  he's 
 starting  to  root  in  and  do  really  well 
 but  um  gosh  you  just  can't  go  wrong  with 
 a  bottle  Palm  in  front  of  a  window  I 
 just  think  that  they're  just  it's  so 
 upright  so  so  soft  so  delicate  and  even 
 when  they  get  bigger  they're  just  and  it 
 t  does  take  time  but  I  just  love  the  the 
 petite  species  that  they  are  so  um  and 
 they  just  don't  put  out  a  lot  of  frond 
 so  it's  not  like  a  heavy  planting  in  the 
 front  and  you  notice  that  I  put 
 everything  that  was  Heavy  to  the  sides  I 
 didn't  want  any  way  to  cover  up  this 
 really  cool  architecture  of  the  house 
 and  that's  that's  a  big  thing  um  even 
 when  you  have  small  lots  to  make  sure 
 that  you  really  do  put  the  weight  on  the 
 edges  and  then  kind  of  dial  it  in  with 
 more  more  of  the  interesting  kind  of 
 more  delicate  things  in  front  of  those 
 lower  area  or  in  front  of  those  areas 
 that  you  don't  want  it  to  be  too  heavy 
 so  I  think  it  accomplished  that  but  you 
 guys  you'll  have  to  let  me  know  what  you 
 think  um  so  now  we're  at  species  12  with 
 the  gold  Mound  so  these  are  golden  Dees 
 or  gold  Mound  but  they  do  a  nice  bit  of 
 Pop  of  bright  color  and  and  I  guess  you 
 can  notice  this  with  my  theme  it's  a 
 rinse  repeat  of  that  it's  dark  and  then 
 goes  into  light  and  then  it  breaks  then 
 it's  dark  and  goes  into  light  and  that's 
 that's  the  kind  of  look  that  I  like 
 overall  so  that  way  when  you're  looking 
 at  the  whole  Space  you  not  only  get 
 different  variations  of  height  but  you 
 get  lights  and  darks  and  lights  and 
 darks  so  I  think  I  I  think  I  I  I  love 
 that  part  about  Landscaping  as  things 
 really  mature  that  really  comes  together 
 so  um  then  we're  going  to  go  into  the 
 next  grouping  which  is  the  fox  tail 
 Ferns  and  that  species  13  um  lucky 
 number  13  I  love  foxtail  ferns  they  kind 
 of  just  add  that  little  bit  of  wild  look 
 to  them  I  think  they're  very  very  cool 
 um  and  they  they're  kind  of  soft  in 
 front  of  this  very  cool  false  agave  so 
 it's  really  going  to  give  a  nice  bit  of 
 impact  on  this  corner  I've  got  two 
 matching  agave  and  I  think  that  they're 
 just  kind  of  really  really  looking  good 
 in  this  space  and  kind  of  giving  you 
 that  Dynamic  look  like  they  do  so  um  I'm 
 going  to  go  ahead  and  count  this  but  it 
 was  part  of  the  Builder  package  that 
 little  um  fla  anti-l  um  it  was  here  in 
 the  Builder's  package  and  I  kind  of 
 needed  something  kind  of  a  final  at  the 
 end  of  the  bed  so  I  repurposed  it  for 
 right  there  so  that  makes  it  14  so 
 species  number  14  but  again  we're 
 talking  about  one  plant  there's  a  lot  of 
 one  plants  in  here  um  so  I  feel  like  you 
 know  you  could  get  away  with  a  lot  less 
 if  you  if  you  needed  to  and  then  of 
 course  finish  it  off  with  this  fabulous 
 fox  tail  Palm  again  he's  fairly  young 
 but  he  is  really  kind  of  a  nice  chunky 
 little  ending  point  to  this  bed  but  it 
 kind  of  really  it  kind  of  really  sets 
 the  tone  we've  got  three  Dynamic  areas 
 in  this  front  where  we  hit  fox  tail 
 palms  with  and  then  did  more  subtle 
 things  in  front  of  those  so  I  think  that 
 that  came  across  really  really  well  um 
 and  then  kind  of  came  around  here  with 
 the  blaze  copper  leaf  now  these  Blaze 
 copper  leaf  I  uh  I  mentioned  the  clients 
 um  to  let  them  get  kind  of  some  size  to 
 them  I  really  like  the  idea  of  them 
 getting  around  that  four  five  foot  range 
 here  normally  I  would  keep  them  the  same 
 height  I  kept  the  other  Blaze  copper 
 leaf 
 however  they  have  a  very  busy  mailbox 
 station  right  next  to  their  house  so 
 having  this  kind  of  ring  of  some  thick 
 dense  height  here  I  think  is  going  to  be 
 a  really  good  thing  just  gives  them  a 
 little  added  privacy  for  the  side  of 
 their  yard  or  when  they're  coming  up  the 
 the  driveway  so  if  they  need  it  but  um 
 so  and  then  this  was  part  of  the  Builder 
 package  this  little  pigate  palm  and  that 
 would  be  species  number  15  and  we  added 
 a  couple  pyate  Palms  on  that  side  over 
 there  but  this  one  we  just  go  ahead  we 
 went  ahead  and  repurposed  it  here  years 
 since  it  was  part  of  the  Builder  package 
 and  I  know  you  guys  um  Builder  packages 
 are  they're  meant  to  be  entry  packages 
 they're  meant  to  get  you  into  the  L  into 
 the  home  get  your  Co  done  um  you  know  I 
 know  that  they're  not  always  you  know  I 
 know  they're  very  vanilla  because  that's 
 the  way  they're  supposed  to  be  there's 
 kind  of  a  a  mass  planting  for  everybody 
 um  so  if  at  all  possible  I  try  to  use 
 the  plant  and  tree  material  within  the 
 Builder  package  as  much  as  possible  by 
 repurposing  it  here  and  repurposing  it 
 there  because  I  hate  to  waste  anything 
 but  and  um  in  a  lot  of  cases  you  know  I 
 like  to  Jazz  up  and  bring  up  my  own 
 material  so  well  let's  move  on  to  the 
 area  just  to  the  other  side  of  the 
 driveway  and  then  we'll  continue  with 
 our  plant  species  counts  so  Norm  so 
 we're  at  the  other  side  now  and  normally 
 um  I  would  put  another  foxtail  Palm 
 adjacent  to  the  other  fox  tail  Palm  um 
 especially  when  you're  coming  up  a  front 
 entrance  but  because  um  of  the  Box  in 
 all  of  the  lines  in  the  whole 
 neighborhood  it  felt  like  were  right 
 here  we  were  not  able  to  do  planting 
 here  so  what  I  did  is  I  just  shifted  it 
 back  a  little  bit  I  did  do  a  similar 
 combination  of  plant  groupings  that  I 
 have  on  the  other  side  so  it  all  feels 
 like  it  matches  it  all  feels  like  it  has 
 a  rhythm  and  runs  together  so  we've  got 
 the  blaze  copper  leaf  that  are  going  to 
 get  three  foot  we've  got  the  Java  white 
 copper  Lea  that  are  just  going  to  get  it 
 Tad  taller  and  hopefully  could  do  a  good 
 job  of  kind  of  giving  them  a  bit  of  a 
 visual  barrier  on  this  um  on  this 
 electrical  box  so  um  and  then  we  work 
 our  way  up  again  we  drop  back  down  to 
 the  blaze  C  coer  leaf  and  then  we  drop 
 up  two  species  I  think  we're  at  16  you 
 guys  will  have  to  let  me  know  but  I 
 think  we're  at  16  now  and  these  Yellow 
 Hibiscus  are  going  to  flush  out  it  looks 
 like  we've  had  some  rabbit  chewing 
 rabbit  season  it's  tough  but  they're 
 blooming  in  spite  of  the  rabbits  and 
 doing  very  very  well  they're  going  to 
 get  into  this  area  now  I  love  yellow  and 
 Peach  and  pink  those  are  my  favorites  on 
 the  Hibiscus  and  I  want  you  see  notice 
 that  we  went  high  low  high  and  then  we 
 also  did  the  same  thing  with  coloration 
 so  we've  got  light  color  to  dark  color 
 or  sorry  we  started  with  dark  color 
 light  color  dark  color  light  color  you 
 know  it's  so  on  it  just  kind  of 
 continues  going  on  and  on  and  on  but  I 
 love  the  idea  because  these  Yellow 
 Hibiscus  if  my  clients  want  them  to  get 
 to  stay  4  foot  they  can  um  but  I  love 
 the  idea  of  them  getting  six  foot  kind 
 of  letting  them  wrap  around  this  hole 
 and  just  be  a  blast  of  color  underneath 
 this  tree  I  just  think  that's  going  to 
 be  so  so  nice  and  hibiscus  and  General 
 if  you  can  keep  them  around  the  5ft 
 range  they're  going  to  be  so  much 
 happier  than  keeping  them  at  the  3ft 
 range  I  know  that  on  the  ticket  it  says 
 they  can  be  maintained  at  3  foot  but 
 they  just  don't  Bloom  nearly  as  nice  as 
 when  that  they're  that  5  six  foot  range 
 so  because  this  is  the  side  of  the  house 
 and  it's  kind  of  just  buffering  the 
 neighbors  Island  you  know  I  why  not  I 
 let  them  get  this  this  kind  of  height 
 and  really  be  a  big  pile  of  yellow  so  I 
 like  I  like  that  bush  clustering  and 
 then  down  below  we  have  the  blue  blue  my 
 Minds  you  know  we're  in  the  evening 
 hours  because  we  were  hoping  that  it  was 
 going  to  be  a  little  bit  cooler  today  um 
 and  the  blue  my  Minds  have  closed  up  you 
 know  that  little  you  know  Bloom  that 
 they  have  I  love  that  they  go  to  sleep 
 but  I  wish  they  would  wake  up  for  the 
 camera  today  because  when  they  when 
 they're  open  they're  absolutely  stunning 
 when  they're  sleep  they  just  look  like 
 they  have  little  teardrop  Blues  but 
 anyway  so  yellow  and  blue  you  can't  go 
 wrong  with  yellow  and 
 blue  and  then  we've  got  some  height  here 
 now  the  clients  were  able  to  bring  in 
 Jaba  white  copper  Le  um  they  were  able 
 to  ask  the  Builder  for  those  when  they 
 did  the  Builder's  package  because  I  met 
 with  them  before  they  actually  did  the 
 installation  so  we  went  through  a  list 
 of  plants  and  trees  that  if  gosh  if  they 
 could  incorporate  those  as  part  of  their 
 you  know  Builder  package  fee  then  um  go 
 ahead  and  use  them  and  I'll  repurpose 
 them  and  that's  exactly  what  we  did  so 
 they  had  the  Java  white  copper  leaves 
 here  which  were  a  stunning  beautiful  um 
 clustering  and  we  just  reused  them  here 
 along  this  side  so  I  think  they  did 
 really  really  well 
 and  then  right  along  this  flat  side  of 
 the  driveway  we  took  what  was  originally 
 their  main  tree  this  was  their  main 
 Builder  package  tree  which  is  a  triple  A 
 very  young  young  young  triple  fox  tail 
 so  um  we  repurposed  it  here  instead  of 
 where  they  had  it  which  I  think  was 
 originally  there  um  it  just  wasn't  quite 
 big  enough  for  that  spot  so  on  this  flat 
 side  of  the  driveway  it'll  do  well  um  my 
 guys  they  they  know  how  to  fertilize 
 they're  good  gardeners  they're  going  to 
 really  kind  of  get  into  to  um  getting 
 into  making  sure  that  everything  stays 
 nice  and  healthy  so  I  know  this  tree  is 
 going  to  be  stunning  it's  just  a  bit  of 
 a  baby  right  now  so  um  but  yeah  so  and 
 then  we  got  the  rosy  Cur  curly  um  copper 
 leaf  and  I  believe  we're  at  17  um  that 
 species  number  17  for  that  so  literally 
 you  know  these  are  just  you  guys  haven't 
 noticed  I  love  copper  leaves  I  think 
 that  they  do  a  fantastic  job  when  you've 
 got  more  moist  soil  and  a  lot  of  these 
 new  developments  have  the  most  gorgeous 
 houses  I  mean  the  the  the  new  houses  are 
 absolutely  stunning  the  soil  on  the 
 other  hand  is  a  lot  to  a  lot  to  deal 
 with  so  a  lot  of  it  is  Clay  a  lot  of  it 
 holds  water  so  I  think  copper  leaves  are 
 that's  the  reason  why  I  use  a  lot  of 
 copper  leaves  because  they  can  combat 
 that  that  can  handle  a  lot  of  that  held 
 moisture  so  um  that's  kind  of  why  I  use 
 them  in  particular  homes  more  often  um 
 versus  a  sandy  soil  home  so  if  that's 
 you  and  you  like  the  look  of  copper 
 leaves  you  just  hit  gold  because  you  can 
 put  copper  Le  everywhere  they  they're 
 very  easy  to  contend  with  when  you  have 
 a  more  moist  soil  base  so  um  so  these 
 are  the  Roses  very  very  cool  plants  and 
 very  very  small  they're  never  going  to 
 compete  again  with  those  Rojo  red 
 Louisiana  red  copper 
 leaves  finished  it  off  with  the  their 
 other  Jaba  white  copper  leaves  that  they 
 had  from  the  Builder  package  dialed  in 
 brought  it  down  in  front  of  these 
 pygmies  because  I  couldn't  put  these  in 
 front  of  the  pygmies  cuz  these  pygmies 
 are  young  and  it  was  going  to  take  take 
 forever  for  them  to  get  to  size  so  those 
 Java  whites  would  be  here  before  those 
 pygmies  would  be  there  so  what  I  chose 
 to  do  is  take  the  little  roses  at  the 
 bottom  and  keep  them  there  because  those 
 can  literally  be  kept  that  size  forever 
 or  you  can  let  them  get  3  foot  but  it's 
 it's  so  easy  to  maintain  them  they're 
 dwarf  and  they  can  sustain  a  small 
 planting  sustain  being  a  small  planting 
 for  a  very  long  time  for  their  whole 
 life  so  um  so  it's  kind  of  a  cool  little 
 little  um  grouped  planting  there  so  I 
 know  we  already  counted  the  pygmy 
 species  from  over  there  but  we  have  two 
 pygmies  that  we  brought  in  this  to  kind 
 of  give  a  little  bit  of  a  barrier  from 
 when  you're  driving  up  this  driveway  to 
 give  them  a  little  bit  of  denseness  and 
 thickness  so  I  think  they're  going  to  do 
 a  nice  job  with  flanking  that  as  they 
 become  big  boy  pygmies  right  now  they're 
 they're  still  pretty  young  so  all  right 
 so  that  brings  us  to  species  number  18 
 so  that  is  the  triangle  fan  palm  it's 
 almost  like  I  save  the  best  for  last  I 
 mean  I  absolutely  love  this  guy  it's 
 such  a  cool  it's  very  young  um  but  I 
 love  love  the  coloring  I  love  the  shape 
 it's  the  perfect  shape  for  um  for  this 
 particular  spot  I  kind  of  wanted 
 something  that  was  going  to  be  very  fan 
 based  kind  of  giving  you  almost  a  final 
 at  the  end  of  this  driveway  so  this  is 
 going  to  turn  into  kind  of  a  little  bit 
 of  a  wall  right  here  um  as  everything 
 really  grows  in  and  this  tree  really 
 becomes  the  staple  from  the  driveway 
 that  it  needs  to  be  so  this  will 
 eventually  be  um  the  tree  that  I  wanted 
 in  in  the  perfect  world  I  would  have 
 loved  to  found  it  about  4ot  bigger  um 
 and  there  was  some  taller  ones  in  in  the 
 Farms  when  I  was  looking  but  none  of 
 them  had  the  right  color  and  had  the 
 right  shape  so  I'm  always  willing  to 
 sacrifice  a  smaller  tree  for  the  perfect 
 tree  for  the  spot  and  that's  exactly 
 what  happened  here  and  my  clients  are  so 
 on  board  that  once  I  you  know  went  over 
 that  with  them  they're  like  yeah  just 
 you  know  bring  the  bring  the  right  tree 
 for  the  right  spot  and  that's  exactly 
 what  we  did  this  tree  um  grows  about  3 
 foot  a  year  so  in  no  time  it  really  will 
 kind  of  give  them  that  height  and  that 
 look  that  um  that  I  really  want  to  see 
 in  this  space  so  um  this  is  a  fantastic 
 fantastic  little  tree  that's  really 
 going  to  do  the  trick  then  I  you  know 
 finished  it  off  with  some  blue  my  Minds 
 in  the  front  because  blue  my  minds  and  I 
 think  I've  mentioned  this  in  other 
 videos  can  handle  the  heat  off  of  these 
 pavers  these  pavers  put  off  tons  of  heat 
 so  whatever  you  put  along  the  edge  of 
 pavers  you  want  to  make  sure  that  it  is 
 tough  It's  durable  it  can  handle  that 
 bounce  back  heat  because  if  not  they  you 
 can  really  burn  up  a  plant  and  I've  done 
 it  so  I  know  this  you  can  burn  up  a 
 plant  species  um  quickly  on  the  along 
 the  pap  line  so  oh  I  have  a  mystery 
 plant  here  so  we  have  a  mystery  add-on 
 species  number  19  I  guess  this  was  um 
 originally  part  of  the  Builder  package 
 and  we  kind  of  kind  of  just  gave  a 
 little  cluster  plant  grouping  um  here 
 because  they  were  they  survived  um  the 
 Builder  package  which  there  wasn't  a 
 whole  lot  that  survived  it  right  after 
 it  was  planted  and  these  were  left  so  we 
 ended  up  just  putting  a  little 
 collection  of  of  um  three  of  them  right 
 here  so  a  little  bit  of  uh  variegated 
 gingers  so  just  letting  them  kind  of 
 come  up  the  gutter  line  and  kind  of  get 
 some  some  size  so  apparently  we  can't 
 count  so  that's  a  total  of  species  of  19 
 but  again  we've  got  one  and  two  and  you 
 know  little  pops  of  them  here  I  I  would 
 say  you're  probably  looking  at  overall 
 maybe  maybe  14  15  total  species  if 
 you're  looking  at  how  many  we  used 
 amongst  the  whole  garden  you  know  the 
 the  big  thick  um  swooshes  of  plants  and 
 trees  so  you  really  can  um  you  know  get 
 away  with  just  a  a  a  handful  variety  of 
 plants  to  really  kind  of  make  give 
 yourself  a  a  nice  bit  of  position  as  in 
 your  front  yard  Garden  it  doesn't  have 
 to  be  a  whole  backup  of  nurseries  to  do 
 that  so  you  can  start  in  sections  um 
 that's  exactly  how  I  started  my  own 
 house  I  took  one  section  kind  of  figured 
 out  what  I  wanted  to  do  with  it  played 
 with  some  colors  played  with  some  height 
 variations  and  then  just  did  that 
 section  and  started  letting  it  grow  in 
 it  really  gave  me  great  inspiration  to 
 kind  of  get  started  with  the  next 
 section  the  next  section  the  next 
 section  so  when  I'm  working  with  clients 
 I  even  tell  them  that  way  we've  got  to 
 work  in  phases  no  problem  let's  tackle 
 the  phase  that's  the  most  important  for 
 you  to  tackle 
 where  you  want  that  impact  and  then 
 we'll  just  kind  of  work  from  there  cuz 
 you  know  Landscaping  is  never  finished 
 even  even  for  me  and  I  have  like  this 
 much  land  left  so  um  I  will  be  planting 
 that  land  in  no  time  so  it's  it's 
 gardening  is  never  done  and  that's  the 
 best  part  about  gardening  because  it's 
 always  evolving  you're  always  touching 
 and  adding  things  so  don't  feel  like  you 
 have  to  uh  get  it  all  done  in  one  day 
 but  anyway  I  hope  this  video  gives  you 
 guys  some  inspiration  on  getting  out  in 
 your  garden  and  doing  some  of  these 
 these  using  some  of  these  variations 
 because  these  are  tried  and  true  and 
 tough  plans  of  Florida  so  I  I  love  the 
 idea  that  they're  not  all  these 
 delicates  and  ornamentals  and  things 
 like  that  you  know  we  do  have  a  lot  of 
 material  that  um  that  can  withstand  our 
 our  pests  our  our  temperatures  our  our 
 rains  and  you  know  it's  a  challenging 
 place  to  plant  so  I  hope  I  hope  I  give 
 you  enough  inspiration  and  enough 
 information  to  where  you  feel  like  you 
 know  what  I'm  going  to  go  pick  up  15  of 
 these  I  think  that  those  are  going  to 
 work  in  my  space  and  that  that  if  that 
 happens  and  you  do  that  thank  me  by 
 putting  that  in  the  comments  down  below 
 because  I  live  off  of  that  kind  of  stuff 
 I  love  your  your  kind  comments  this 
 community  that's  been  built  super  super 
 awesome  and  Bryce  and  I  love  to  just 
 kind  of  go  through  those  and  read  those 
 so  yeah  so  thank  you  guys  so  much  for 
 those  of  you  who  comment  regularly  and 
 um  you  know  I  uh  I  look  forward  to 
 reading  them  so  I  will  let  you  go  now 
 and  I  will  see  you  in  the  very  next 
 video  tour  please  do  not  forget  to  like 
 And  subscribe  um  hit  that  notification 
 Bell  if  this  is  your  jam  if  this  is  what 
 you  like  to  see 
 and  good  luck  gardeners  out  there  it's 
 hot  drink  a  lot  of  water  and  a  lot  of 
 wine  see  you  later  so  hey  you  guys  I 
 don't  always  get  to  get  my  clients  in 
 the  video  but  Tyrone  has  agreed  to  um 
 just  kind  of  say  hello  and  share  a 
 moment  of  what  he  thought  of  the  project 
 the  experience  this  is  very  special  to 
 me  because  you  guys  on  YouTube  he  was 
 one  of  you  guys  on  YouTube  contacted  us 
 was  yes  contacted  me  we  walked  through 
 the  garden  he  loved  the  style  he  loved 
 the  kind  of  the  concept  of  what  we  do 
 and  was  and  you  know  and  the  rest  is 
 history  and  now  we're  friends  and  we're 
 you  know  I  just  we're  going  to  do 
 multiple  phases  through  his  project  and 
 so  I  wanted  to  just  you  know  just 
 introduce  him  and  obviously  say  thank 
 you  so  much  for  letting  us  tour  your 
 beautiful  garden  and  um  being  here  would 
 you  mind  telling  our  friends  our  garden 
 community  on  YouTube  what  you  thought  of 
 the  service  um  first  I  will  say  is  it 
 was  Stellar  there's  nothing  I  would  say 
 I  would  ask  I  can  ask  for  more  you  make 
 the  phone  call  and  it  was  that  to  me  we 
 were  a  little  bit  of  fans  so  we  were  oh 
 my  God  she  actually  answered  the  phone 
 we  thought  somebody  else  was  going  to 
 answer  the  phone  and  then  we  went 
 through  the  process  and  the  process 
 started  with  you  coming  in  awesome  per  I 
 mean  amazing  came  in  you  gave  us 
 everything  we  wanted  asked  us  what 
 plants  we  like  what  we  didn't  like  and 
 us  being  from  up  North  it's  a  very  big 
 difference  in  what  we  get  down  here  we 
 all  come  down  and  I  want  palm  trees  I 
 don't  want  nothing  but  palm  trees  but 
 obviously  if  you  look  around  you  see 
 what  we  got  and  we  got  that  Tropical 
 Oasis 
 and  we  are  over  the  moon  awesome  over 
 this  I  mean  it's  one  of  everyone  stops 
 by  our  house  all  the  time  and  goes  who 
 did  you  Landscaping  yes  and  we  are 
 actually  going  to  do  the  neighbors  right 
 across  the  street  in  like  two  weeks  so 
 um  it's  true  they  it  really  has  it  has 
 appealed  to  most  of  the  most  of  the 
 neighborhood  I  will  say  that  I  rarely 
 get  most  of  the  time  I  go  through  my  um 
 iPad  with  my  clients  or  my  future 
 clients  and  I  say  you  know  tell  me  the 
 plants  that  you  like  and  don't  like  just 
 to  kind  of  give  me  some  ideas  of  their 
 style  they  were  extremely  tough  these 
 two  okay  because  both  of  them  were  like 
 every  single  plan  was  a  yes  I  love  it 
 let's  do  it  I  love  it  I  love  it  I  love 
 it  I  love  it  I'm  like  so  my  goal  at  that 
 point  was  to  find  a  plant  they  didn't 
 like  so  I  could  put  it  on  the  no  list 
 and  then  we  ended  up  with  I  think  it  was 
 total  of  18  spe  19  species  that  we  ended 
 up  having  in  the  garden  so  um  and  that 
 was  including  some  of  the  Builder 
 package  that  um  that  we  reincorporated 
 into  the  into  the  design  so  um  so  I  want 
 to  reiterate  that  you  can  really  do  um 
 have  a  beautiful  front  yard  garden  with 
 just  a  few  species  of  plants  that  really 
 kind  of  make  it  make  it  happen  so  I 
 think  the  big  thing  I  want  everybody  to 
 realize  is  don't  limit  yourself  don't 
 feel  embarrassed  to  say  no  don't  feel 
 embarrassed  to  say  you're  over  the  top 
 it's  the  best  thing  for  you  because  you 
 have  to  live  with  the  Landscaping  at  the 
 end  of  the  day  yes  and  we  are  H  I  sit 
 out  here  all  the  time  and  just  look  at 
 it  so  I'm  telling  you  if  you  if  you  you 
 will  not  go  wrong  pick  them  go  with  them 
 trust  the  process  trust  the  proc  trust 
 the  process  let  it  work  and  you  will  be 
 amazed  my  biggest  oh  one  last  tip  watch 
 all  the  videos  so  you  can  kind  of  come 
 prepared  so  you  kind  of  know  they  were 
 prepared  I  mean  they  were  like  video 
 number  14  is  the  one  that  I  like  they 
 were  on  you  you  will  know  and  you  it 
 really  helps  the  process  a  lot  and  I 
 think  that  I  mean  we  are  again  I  can't 
 ask  for  more  I'm  really  ready  for  phase 
 two  we  have  to  wait  a  little  bit  because 
 like  you  said  you  ask  for  showstopper 
 you  get  it  so  right  we  have  to  we're 
 going  to  work  on  that  but  I'm  really 
 excited  for  I'm  really  excited  that's  I 
 love  that  because  when  my  a  lot  of  my 
 clients  we  want  to  work  our  way  all  the 
 way  around  the  yard  wait  and  do  it  the 
 way  you  want  it  and  and  if  as  the  budget 
 allows  because  that  way  you  get 
 everything  you  want  instead  of  just 
 trying  to  do  everything  in  one  big  wham 
 bam  thank  you  ma'am  all  done  you  want  to 
 kind  of  get  it  all  all  all  the  way  you 
 want  it  every  single  phase  that  way  when 
 you're  done  and  you're  complete  and 
 everything's  grown  in  it's  the  Tropical 
 Paradise  that  you  originally  wanted  so 
 um  so  I  know  that's  going  to  happen  with 
 with  these  guys  thank  you  so  so  much 
 Tyrone  no  problem  I'm  a  big  hugger  so  of 
 course  so  this  is  I  mean  I'm  I'm  telling 
 you  you  guys  are  always  welcome  here  any 
 time  come  back  anytime  you  want  and  I 
 can't  guys  trust  me  phe  two  will  be  even 
 we'll  go  for  y  this  I'm  telling  you 
 we'll  be  back  for  video  two  on  phase  two 
 so  thank  you  again  thank  you  so  much  no 
 problem  you  guys  all  right  you  guys 
 we're  out 
 [Music]

---

 [Music] 
 oh  oh 
 oh  oh  oh 
 so  hey  you  guys  welcome  back  so  today's 
 video  is  going  to  be  about  maintenance 
 now  don't  click  off  I  know  maintenance 
 sucks  for  everybody  but  I'm  hoping  to 
 demystify  some  Florida  garden 
 maintenance  here  um  the  way  that  we  do 
 it  is  hand  pruning  hand  trimming  hand 
 shaping  and  I  want  to  share  with  you  the 
 biggest  reason  why  I'm  telling  you  I 
 know  that  a  lot  of  the  garden  services 
 that  come  out  it's  it's  pretty  much 
 hedge  trimming  and  and  they're  in  and 
 they're  out  and  they're  done  and  I  know 
 that's  an  efficient  way  to  do  things 
 however  just  the  the  difference  in  and 
 what  you  get  from  that  product  is 
 amazing  so  I  want  to  share  with  you  how 
 often  we  trim  um  how  we  overall  trim  and 
 um  kind  of  what  to  expect  when  a  proper 
 trimming  is  done  when  you  do  it  every  60 
 to  90  days  because  that's  truly  how 
 Florida  garden  service  or  how  Florida 
 maintenance  should  be  done  um  I  find 
 that  it  works  the  best  that  way  do  you 
 need  to  do  a  little  little  cut  or  or  a 
 little  spruce  up  here  and  there  between 
 that  time  if  it's  heavily  raining  maybe 
 but  overall  um  your  garden  service  in 
 Florida  really  should  be  just  kind  of 
 getting  into  your  garden  about  every 
 quarter  that's  that's  the  average  amount 
 of  Maintenance  that's  what  I  do  in  my 
 own  space  because  it's  just  cuz  we're 
 busy  people  so  I  want  to  share  with  you 
 kind  of  how  we  do  it  what  it  looks  like 
 after  we're  done  it's  kind  of  like  it's 
 it's  nice  and  rounded  it's  nice  and 
 shaped  but  it  is  an  aggressive  cut  back 
 because  that  is  what  we  need  we  need  to 
 let  air  into  those  plants  and  trees  to 
 really  flush  out  really  become  thick 
 from  the  bottom  out  so  so  let's  walk 
 over  here  and  I'll  kind  of  share  with 
 you  what  um  how  that  process  goes  look 
 how  much  comes  off  one  plant  when  you 
 when  you  trim  and  you  shape  so  typically 
 gold  Mound  you  want  to  make  sure  that 
 you  almost  take  it  back  down  to  its 
 original  size  um  now  in  this  particular 
 home  this  client  likes  them  individual 
 you  can  keep  them  as  a  solid  group 
 planting  but  you  can  let  them  become 
 individual  if  this  is  a  look  that  you 
 like  but  this  is  a  harsh  cutback  so  it's 
 been  almost  four  months  since  this  house 
 has  been  trimmed  and  you  can  really  see 
 that  it  now  looks  like  a  brand  new 
 landscape  again  the  hand  trimming  really 
 does  a  nice  job  of  making  sure  that 
 everything  is  clipped  and  rounded  versus 
 um  when  you  come  up  through  with  a  hedge 
 trimmer  then  you're  pretty  much  just 
 cutting  those  top  edges  of  each  plant 
 and  I'm  telling  you  that  that  look  it 
 leaves  all  those  brown  edges  and  tips 
 and  leaves  it  suceptible  to  Pest  and 
 bugs  and  disease  so  this  is  really  the 
 important  way  to  do  it  it's  really  the 
 efficient  way  to  do  it  and  if  you've 
 only  got  to  do  it  you  know  every  3 
 months  or  so  why  not  do  it  that  way  not 
 why  not  do  it  the  right 
 way  that's  exactly  how  you  trim  fox  tail 
 FS 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 so  the  one  thing  I  love  about  Florida 
 plants  is  that  overall  you  know  if  you 
 if  you  give  it  a  bad  haircut  it's  going 
 to  flush  back  out  it's  going  to  grow  so 
 why  not  practice  why  not  get  in  there 
 and  figure  out  exactly  the  shape  that 
 you're  hoping  to  achieve  with  a  planting 
 you  see  like  what  bernabi  is  doing  here 
 he's  really  making  sure  he's  kind  of 
 following  a  curved  path  and  all  he's 
 doing  is  trimming  the  things  that  are  on 
 the  outside  of  that  curved  path  and  you 
 you  also  want  to  see  there's  a  big  gap 
 app  in  here  and  this  is  just  the  way  the 
 tree  grows  so  the  goal  is  is  to  get  that 
 and  open  that  up  and  I  know  that  sounds 
 like  it's  counterproductive  but  if  you 
 can  open  that  up  and  allow  sun  to  get  in 
 there  once  it's  fertilized  it's  going  to 
 push  energy  back  out  into  that  hole 
 because  plants  naturally  do  want  to  fill 
 in  those  spaces  they  kind  of  want  to 
 become  full  and  become  solid  and  create 
 a  canopy  so  that's  exactly  what's  going 
 to  happen  with  that  tree  now  I  know 
 hibiscus  trees  are  especially  the  these 
 lollipop  shapes  are  very  controversial 
 some  people  love  them  real  full  real 
 natural  looking  some  people  want  them 
 like  a  nice  rounded  ball  so  it  really 
 just  depends  on  um  it  really  depends  on 
 your  space  your  house  what  you're 
 looking  for  how  much  coverage  you  want 
 out  of  it  but  don't  be  afraid  to  cut  it 
 way  back  a  couple  times  a  year  I  mean 
 I'm  talking  like  make  it  a  nice  lollipop 
 shape  and  then  allow  it  to  flush  out  in 
 all  those  spots  that  it  might  be  missing 
 maybe  a  bird  nested  in  a  certain  spot  so 
 you've  got  a  bald  spot  so  but  by  cutting 
 it  back  you're  really  allowing  it  to 
 regrow  all  that  new  growth  it's  very 
 very  healthy  for  the  for  the  plant  or 
 the  tree  um  and  take  that  time  to 
 fertilize  so  that  way  you  know  it's  got 
 that  energy  to  really  you  know  really 
 push  out  some  nice  growth  so  so  I  guess 
 the  the  goal  of  Florida  gardening  with 
 hand  pruning  is  don't  be  afraid  to  cut 
 back  don't  be  afraid  to  bring  it  down 
 really  small  if  you  make  a  mistake  and 
 you  end  up  end  up  chop  a  side  of  it  off 
 chop  the  other  side  of  it  off  and  round 
 it  out  allow  it  to  flush  out  the  whole 
 goal  is  for  that  that  heat  that  Florida 
 sun  to  get  in  the  middle  of  that  plant 
 grouping  and  start  to  grow  from  there 
 because  if  not  you'll  see  what'll  happen 
 here  is  all  that  top  will  be  beautiful 
 but  the  bottom  will  be  Ley  now  in  this 
 particular  case  this  is  due  to  rabbits 
 so  it's  not  necessarily  due  to  poor  poor 
 maintenance  from  this  customer  but  that 
 is  exactly  what  happens  naturally  the 
 plant  is  always  lovely  at  the  top  it 
 always  grows  um  pretty  much  just  wood  at 
 the  bottom  so  when  you  come  in  and  you 
 do  those  heavy  cutbacks  it  keeps  that 
 plant  Lush  and  full  and  tropical  so 
 that's  that's  the  goal  of  of  maintaining 
 it  and  you  don't  have  to  come  out  and  be 
 a  weekend  warrior  and  do  maintenance 
 every  single  weekend  you  can  do  this 
 every  two  months  in  the  summer  and  then 
 once  or  twice  in  the  winter  I  mean  it's 
 really  it's  really  not  a  lot  of  um  a  lot 
 of  upkeep  if  you  maintain  it  that  way  so 
 Bryce  let's  take  a  peek  at  these  dwarf 
 Bugan  Vilas  I  know  ban  Vilas  can  be 
 tough  to  um  to  to  maintain  not  only  do 
 they  have  the  Thorns  but  they  also  um 
 can  really  really  get  crazy  even  the 
 dwarf  boan  Vila 
 um  can  do  that  now  I  know  I  know  it's 
 enticing  when  people  see  that  dwarf 
 Bugan  Vilas  will  be  maintained  and 
 easily  kept  at  3  foot  tall  but  that 
 doesn't  mean  they'll  stop  growing  at 
 that  um  so  I  put  them  in  knowing  that 
 these  are  going  to  need  a  cut  back  again 
 every  two  to  three  months  so  what  you 
 want  to  make  sure  to  do  is  take  them  way 
 down  because  that  keeps  them  Lush  and 
 full  buganvillas  are  one  of  those  plants 
 that  like  to  Arch  they  like  to  really 
 really  um  kind  of  get  outside  their 
 surroundings  so  they  have  tendency  to 
 become  beautiful  at  the  edges  and  then 
 not  so  nice  down  down  in  the  middle  and 
 then  you  wonder  why  every  little  storm 
 there  there's  all  these  broken  limbs  so 
 really  really  good  idea  to  get  those 
 buganvillas  back  down  to  almost  the  size 
 they  were  when  they  were  planted 
 especially  the  first  year  and  then 
 really  let  them  become  a  nice  thick 
 dense  um  almost  ball-like  planting  and 
 they  will  flush  right  out  I  promise  you 
 they  will  not  keep  this  kind  of  real 
 hedg  trimmed  real  tight  look  the  whole 
 time  this  is  really  just  for  the  health 
 of  the  plant  so  just  look  how  nice  and 
 dense  these  guys  are  they're  a  nice 
 solid  these  plants  are  a  few  months  old 
 so  they've  really  started  to  come  back 
 and  fill  in  and  they're  just  they're 
 just  going  to  be  a  gorgeous  gorgeous 
 plant  now  the  guys  have  trimmed  quite  a 
 bit  of  the  this  off  but  the  goal  is  to 
 have  this  plant  about  this  size  here  so 
 you  kind  of  want  it  in  this  range  and 
 you  kind  of  want  them  all  to  connect  I 
 don't  want  them  to  be  individual  however 
 by  doing  this  we're  really  preparing 
 them  to  be  a  solid  grouping  you  don't 
 want  a  weak  Link  in  this  grouping 
 neither  do  you  want  that  in  any  of  your 
 plant  groupings  because  that's  really 
 what  helps  and  keeps  them  condensed  and 
 keeps  them  interlocked  so  you  guys  are 
 Norm  to  this  channel  you  know  that  the 
 fal  Agave  is  a  staple  in  a  lot  of  my 
 Gardens  I  absolutely  love  what  it  does 
 in  a  landscape  what  a  sculpture  it  makes 
 and  it  grows  nice  and  slow  but  it  gives 
 you  that  impact  so  this  one's  got  about 
 3  feet  to  go  and  when  it  becomes  that 
 three  foot  height  above  where  it's  at 
 it's  going  to  be  just  such  a  focal  point 
 in  the  front  entrance 
 however  very  quickly  after  planting  the 
 following  question  from  a  client  is 
 usually  how  do  I  trim  this  guy  because 
 he  does  have  these  points  along  the  tops 
 now  I  love  this  particular  um  version  of 
 agave  because  it  does  not  have  thorns 
 along  the  leaf  itself  it's  nice  and 
 smooth  however  these  points  will  get  you 
 so  what  I  usually  tell  my  clients  I  wish 
 I  I  got  here  before  um  before  the  guy 
 started  trimming  this  but  you  can  kind 
 of  see  where  those  cuts  are  here  and  the 
 way  that  I  find  it  the  easiest  way  to  do 
 it  if  you  have  a  if  you're  trimming  the 
 Agave  you're  really  only  trimming  the 
 ones  that  are  kind  of  hanging  down  just 
 like  this  so  the  best  way  to  really  do 
 it  is  take  your  foot  put  it  on  there  and 
 use  a  sharp  knife  could  be  a  steak  Knife 
 could  be  any  knife  and  then  slice  it 
 there  and  that  way  you  can  just  go  all 
 the  way  around  the  plant  you  don't  want 
 to  use  hand  Clippers  really  hard  to  get 
 in  here  and  you  just  don't  want  these 
 points  to  end  up  anywhere  they're  not 
 supposed  to  be  so  um  but  yeah  just  put 
 your  foot  down  on  there  and  slice  and  go 
 all  the  way  around  the  plant  and  then 
 you  do  that  really  with  eave  you  only 
 have  to  do  that  about  twice  a  year  so 
 overall  these  are  a  low  maintenance 
 accent  feature  so  don't  be  afraid  to 
 throw  them  in  your  garden  because  do 
 they  bite  yes  but  you  you  can  you  can 
 work  around  that  once  you  kind  of  figure 
 out  how  to  maintain  them  so  I  know  I 
 mentioned  hand  clipping  is  King  and  I 
 really  do  believe  it  is  and  once  you 
 kind  of  get  it  down  it  really  does  it 
 not  only  is  it  is  it  beautiful  but  it's 
 really  not  that  much  more  time  than 
 hedge  trimming  you  really  can  just  kind 
 of  come  through  and  just  selective  cut 
 what  you  want  however  I  don't  mind 
 things  like  these  poto  carpet  absolutely 
 hedge  trim  them  especially  if  you  have  a 
 very  long  expanse  of  those  a  lot  of 
 people  use  them  as  privacy  Hedges  so 
 they're  five  or  six  foot  tall  and  you 
 got  a  hedge  trim  across  the  front  hedge 
 trim  across  the  top  now  that  that  I  can 
 completely  understand  and  that's  a 
 timesaver  because  of  all  these  little 
 needles  however  when  it  comes  to  big 
 leaf  plants  big  Tropicals  like  cloy  or 
 sea  grape  definitely  take  that  time  to 
 do  what  the  guys  are  doing  here  just 
 hand  trim  those  those  edges  you  you  can 
 get  a  real  crisp  real  clean 
 line  but  the  last  thing  you  want  to  see 
 is  those  like  those  every  one  of  those 
 succulent  leaves  you  don't  want  to  see 
 that  brown  Edge  that  harsh  line  that 
 burnt  Edge  all  through  the  bush  I  might 
 get  Bryce  to  slide  in  a  picture  of  those 
 I  see  them  all  the  time  in  big 
 communities  I  get  that  this  is  going  to 
 you  know  hedge  trimming  something  like 
 this  will  probably  take  about  20  minutes 
 hand  trimming  maybe  an  hour  but  what  a 
 huge  difference  and  you  really  can  get  a 
 selective  cut  on  this  you  can  really 
 make  sure  that  any  gaps  that  you  have  by 
 hand  trimming  just  the  right  way  you're 
 going  to  fill  those  gaps  but  hedge 
 trimming  it's  it's  pretty  tough  to  try 
 to  get  it  just  the  way  you  want  it  so 
 you  guys  can  really  see  what  we're 
 trying  to  do  is  we're  trying  to  make  it 
 condensed  and  full  about  5  months  in  the 
 ground  not  been  trimmed  but  you  can 
 really  see  things  are  starting  to  come 
 in  and  fill  out  there's  some  gaps  here 
 and  here  that's  why  we're  trimming  all 
 of  these  top  Heights  down  because 
 naturally  kusia  will  throw  out  bushes  on 
 the  strongest  stems  so  if  this  stem 
 isn't  trimmed  you  won't  get  growth  from 
 right  here  where  you  need  it  you'll  get 
 this  growth  coming  out  this  way  so  it's 
 really  important  to  get  in  here  even  if 
 you  want  this  to  be  a  six  or  8T  or  10 
 foot  definitely  trim  it  down  because  you 
 want  the  whole  plant  to  get  that  size 
 not  just  individual  stems  to  get  all 
 wonky  because  what'll  happen  the  next 
 rainstorm  or  heavy  winds  this  will  break 
 and  then  now  you're  and  now  it's  wonky 
 anyway  taking  all  of  those  tops  off 
 you're  taking  anything  that's  going 
 through  the  fence  off  and  you're  pushing 
 and  forcing  growth  out  in  the  the  right 
 places  so  if  you  guys  are  regulars  to 
 our  videos  you  definitely  see  the 
 quarter  lines  they're  in  a  lot  of  my 
 projects  um  and  I  did  a  video  uh  last 
 year  on  how  to  trim  and  how  to  propagate 
 your  quarter  lines  because  they're  so  so 
 very  easy  to  do  so  I  thought  this  is  a 
 perfect  example  this  is  a  cluster 
 grouping  this  is  the  way  I  like  to  plant 
 them  um  this  has  been  the  ground  I  guess 
 6  s  months  now  and  really  you  kind  of 
 see  how  this  one  here  has  um  has  grown 
 so  nicely  but  then  there's  a  gap  here 
 there's  a  hole  into  this  spot  and  if  you 
 look  at  everything  from  a  hole 
 everything  in  this  area  kind  of  has  a 
 nice  layered  effect  because  these  have 
 been  trimmed  and  put  back  in  So  today 
 we're  going  to  trim  this  guy  right  here 
 take  him  down  to  about  right  here  take 
 that  old  growth  scar  it  up  a  little  bit 
 so  it  remotes  that  those  roots  to  come 
 in  out  and  taking  this  guy  and  putting 
 him  right  in  this  hole  so  now  this 
 beautiful  clustering  of  leaves  is  going 
 to  be  right  where  it  needs  to  be  why  are 
 you  doing  that  so  it  fills  that  hole  so 
 it  fills  that  hole  and  that's  what's  so 
 Magnificent  about  these  quarter  lines  is 
 because  really  you  can  just  kind  of 
 place  them  where  you  want  to  it's  almost 
 like  a  bouquet  of  flowers  you  can  you 
 can  arrange  them  the  way  that  you  want 
 to  they're  not  in  a  fixed  location  so 
 you  just  cut  that  stem  off  put  it  right 
 into  the  ground  it  flushes  out  and  fills 
 in  that  Gap  so  anywhere  you  have  an  open 
 stem  cut  a  cut  one  from  back  there  or  a 
 pretty  one  or  a  tall  one  and  then  stick 
 it  in  the  ground  that  way  you  always 
 have  that  layering  you  don't  see  any  of 
 that  wood  so  that  pretty  much  sums  it  up 
 I  I  hope  that  those  tips  helped  you  guys 
 um  you  know  we  I  I  want  wanted  to  make 
 it  to  where  if  you're  out  in  your  garden 
 you  kind  of  you  know  kind  of  gives  you 
 some  some  um  some  insight  some  energy  to 
 get  out  there  and  really  shape  and  trim 
 your  plants  and  it  doesn't  always  have 
 to  be  the  traditional  way  of  hedge 
 trimming  and  and  in  and  out  this  is 
 something  that  can  be  handled  by  a 
 personal  Gardener  you  can  contact  us  if 
 you're  in  our  area  or  you  can  just  kind 
 of  follow  along  these  guidelines  and 
 keep  in  mind  trimming  and  maintenance 
 it's  it's  not  always  for  the  instant 
 beauty  of  what  you're  doing  now  you  know 
 because  this  is  going  to  look  nice  but 
 it's  not  going  to  look  great  when  we're 
 done  what's  going  to  look  great  is  the 
 overtime  of  doing  this  over  over  a  year 
 you're  really  going  to  see  those  new 
 plants  really  become  what  they  were 
 meant  to  become  by  maintaining  them 
 properly  from  get-go  so  I  hope  this 
 video  helps  for  for  the  health  of  your 
 future  plans  if  I  if  I  um  leave  anything 
 out  you  have  any  other  questions  please 
 stick  in  the  comments  down  below  please 
 do  not  forget  to  subscribe  if  this  is 
 your  kind  of  thing  hit  that  notification 
 Bell  and  I'll  see  you  in  the  very  next 
 video 
 [Music]

---

 hey  you  guys  welcome  back  we  are  in  my 
 garden  again  and  we  are  going  to 
 Showcase  one  of  my  favorite  plants  I 
 mean  I  know  I  say  that  about  all  my 
 plants  but  if  they're  in  my  garden 
 technically  they're  all  my  favorite 
 plants  but  this  one  is  definitely  a 
 favorite  this  is  the  farfugium  plant  it 
 is  also  called  tractor  seat  leopard's 
 ear  it's  got  so  many  different  names  um 
 but  farfugium  is  its  original  name  it  is 
 native  to  Japan  and  I  am  in  love  with 
 this  Lily  Pad  Leaf  so  I've  used  it  in  my 
 garden  as  you  can  see  quite  often  I 
 absolutely  love  the  look  of  it  the  size 
 of  this  Leaf  to  me  is  just  so  fabulous  I 
 just  don't  I  don't  know  what  screams 
 tropical  more  than  that  and  the  fact 
 that  it  is  a  slow  growing  plant  is  one 
 of  my  favorite  things  about  it  so  this 
 has  been  in  my  garden  for  a  few  years 
 now  and  this  is  the  size  it's  been  I  do 
 very  very  little  work  to  it  because  it 
 has  that  kind  of  that  kind  of  messy 
 tropical  Lush  kind  of  look  to  it  so  you 
 only  trim  what  you  don't  want  on  this 
 plant  so  say  if  it's  coming  over  into 
 the  walkway  a  little  bit  I  might  just 
 trim  this  one  for  instance  because  it's 
 getting  a  little  bit  too  close  to  the 
 walkway  or  if  one  of  the  leaves  turn 
 yellow  I'll  trim  that  leaf  but  that's 
 pretty  much  it  so  it's  kind  of  an  as 
 needed  no  fuss  um  overall  plant  now  the 
 things  the  the  places  that  it  really 
 likes  to  be  in  your  garden  if  you  plan 
 on  using  this  plant  is  a  shade 
 environment  shade  filtered  light  it  does 
 not  like  full  sun  it  does  not  like  even 
 even  too  much  morning  midday  Sun  it  can 
 really  start  to  really  melt  on  you  so  it 
 really  does  like  to  be  within  a  canopy 
 grouping  of  trees  you  know  that's  kind 
 of  where  it  belongs  so  if  you  have  a  um 
 kind  of  a  layered  landscape  it  loves  to 
 be  underneath  um  palm  trees  it  can  be 
 underneath  that  oak  tree  where  nothing 
 else  grows  under  it  but  ferns  try  these 
 guys  out  they  really  really  do  like  that 
 that  acidic  soil  so  all  of  that  leaf 
 droppage  will  not  bother  them  at  all 
 they're  um  they're  a  great  underst  story 
 planting  now  what  I  usually  like  to  do 
 with  them  is  I'll  pair  them  with 
 something  that's  like  this  which  is  the 
 giant  Al  or  excuse  me  this  is  the  dwarf 
 aliccia  and  this  even  though  it's  dwarf 
 it's  just  like  every  other  dwarf  in 
 Florida  it  still  grows  huge  so  this  guy 
 will  still  get  into  that  4ft  range  of 
 height  and  so  when  he's  4  foot  range  his 
 real  beauty  is  at  the  top  with  these 
 giant  leaves  I  think  I  have  an  Allison 
 Wonderland  thing  going  on  because  I  love 
 those  big  giant  leaves  and  you  know  like 
 those  Lily  Pad  kind  of  feel  but  so  this 
 is  going  to  get  tall  which  means  the 
 bottom  of  it  is  going  to  get  kind  of  you 
 know  kind  of  you  know  leggy  and  when 
 that  happens  I'm  not  a  fan  of  of  seeing 
 that  base  so  I'll  take  a  skirt  planting 
 and  skirt  around  the  bottom  of  it  which 
 allows  me  to  put  a  lot  of  plants  in  a 
 very  small  space  because  you  really  do 
 you  can  really  kind  of  layer  right  on 
 top  of  it  as  long  as  you  use  the 
 sequence  of  plantings  that  these  plants 
 fall  forward  and  chunk  out  these  plants 
 go  vertical  and  widen  out  so  you  kind  of 
 need  you  need  the  two  almost  two  was 
 just  like  having  one  plant  for  instance 
 so  um  so  they're  fantastic  for  that  so 
 places  that  or  other  companion  plants 
 that  they  grow  super  super  well  with  is 
 the  um  I've  got  some  agena  back  here 
 that  you  can't  see  because  my  elephan 
 are  out  growing  them  they  grow  in  that 
 same  family  so  they  do  super  well 
 together  and  they  grow  about  the  same 
 type  time  frame  another  plant  is  last 
 week's  plant  of  the  week  which  was  a 
 sloppy  painter  sloppy  painters  are 
 fabulous  with  their  big  crazy  um  long 
 Leaf  color  and  then  these  guys  that  are 
 the  exact  opposite  wide  Leaf  big  round 
 shiny  leaf  and  they'll  go  around  the 
 bottom  of  them  fantastic  fantastic  for 
 that  so  companion  plants  sloppy  painters 
 elephan  ear  Rojo  Congos  because  all  of 
 those  are  going  to  grow  in  that  same 
 kind  of 
 fashion  uh  fertilization  so  I  fertilize 
 um  most  of  these  Tropicals  that  you  see 
 here  with  8212  I  know  that  is  a  palm 
 fertilizer  but  they  really  do  react 
 super  super  well  to  a  palm  ferti 
 fertilization  so  Palm  gate  or  Lesco  8212 
 slow  relase  granular  is  a  great  product 
 to  use  and  you  kind  of  just  all  I  do  is 
 I  kind  of  just  chicken  feed  it  so  I'll 
 take  a  a  bucket  and  put  um  take  a 
 handful  and  just  kind  of  go  right  along 
 the  edge  edges  of  the  plant  grouping 
 with  it  you  don't  want  to  touch  any  of 
 the  leaves  you  just  kind  of  want  to  make 
 sure  that  you  know  you're  kind  of 
 dispersing  it  through  the  soil  so  you 
 know  keep  in  mind  that  I  know  it's 
 fertiliz  fertilizing  plants  but  really 
 what  you're  doing  is  you're  fertilizing 
 in  the  soil  because  the  plants  take  up 
 that  nutrients  from  the  soil  so  that's 
 that's  what  you're  that's  what  you're 
 amending  that's  what  you're  touching  up 
 so  every  time  you're  doing  a 
 fertilization  you're  really  just  almost 
 doing  like  a  top  dressing  for  the  Sawyer 
 kind  kind  of  giving  it  I  know  it's  a 
 synthetic  fertilizer  but  you're  kind  of 
 giving  it  that  that  nutrients  that  it 
 needs  those  plants  need  to  soak  up  so  um 
 and  you're  going  to  want  to  do  that  in 
 um  I  start  every  March  and  then  I  hit  it 
 again  in  June  then  September  and  then 
 December  now  if  December's  temps  drop 
 and  the  plants  kind  of  slow  down  with 
 their  growing  and  you  know  it's  it's  in 
 that  you  know  50s  40  range  I  do  not  um 
 hit  fertilizer  that  that  time  of  the 
 year  so  I'm  hoping  September  will  carry 
 us  over  into  March  so  but  yeah  so  it's 
 generally  four  times  a  year  if  we  have  a 
 warm  a  warm  winter  which  is  a  lot  of  our 
 winter  so  um  so  I  think  we  covered 
 everything  where  it  goes  in  the  garden 
 how  to  maintain  it 
 um  yeah  if  there's  anything  else  that 
 I've  missed  as  far  as  um  care  for  this 
 plant  you're  thinking  about  using  it  in 
 your  own  garden  and  I  can  offer  some 
 insight  then  please  share  it  in  the 
 comments  down  below  and  if  it's  a 
 question  that  you  know  I  I  you  know  I 
 think  that  everybody  should  know  I'll  be 
 sure  to  pin  it  at  the  top  of  the 
 comments  because  that  way  we  can  we  can 
 help  everybody  in  this  gardening 
 Community  we  really  can  give  everybody 
 everybody  the  um  you  know  the  help  that 
 they  want  for  creating  a  tropical  buffer 
 in  their  planting  so  I  uh  I  will  see  you 
 guys  in  the  very  next  plan  of  the  week 
 video  and  please  don't  forget  to  like 
 And  subscribe  and  uh  follow  us  on 
 Instagram  and  comment  true  Garder  if  you 
 made  it  through  this  video  thank  you 
 true  garders  I  will  see  you  in  the  very 
 next  video  next  week 
 [Music]

---

 if  you  are  interested  in  pool  plantings 
 that  give  you  that  Resort  likee  feel 
 that  then  stick  around  because  I  am 
 going  to  share  with  you  the  plants  and 
 trees  that  I  chose  for  this  space  to 
 make  that  happen  these  or  Palms  do  a 
 fabulous  job  of  offering  buffering  here 
 cloas  that  wrap  around  the  backside  of 
 this  so  privacy  is  exactly  what  the 
 doctor  called  for  back  here  M  has  about 
 another  three  foot  to  go  and  then  it's 
 fully  matured  how  much  I  love  Fox  taale 
 Palms  these  Royal  Palms  in  the  back  so 
 we've  got  two  large  Royal  Pals  this 
 Christmas  Palm  Three  pyate  Palms  in  a 
 kind  of  a  triangle  formation  got  sesia 
 Ami  croin  and  our  final  tier  down  here 
 is  Loria  monsteras  are  going  to  get  that 
 four  five  six  foot  tall  in  the  back  that 
 nice  big  height  and  big  arching  branches 
 and  just  real  tropical  leaf  feel  then 
 you  drop  down  to  the  sesia  that  are 
 going  to  be  that  4  foot  range  and  then 
 you  get  down  to  the  Mami  croin  that  are 
 going  to  be  twoot  range  and  then  about  a 
 foot  with  the  laia

---



---

 so  hey  you  guys  I've  gotten  some 
 questions  on  um  what  I  do  first  when  I'm 
 planning  a  project  right  after  I've  met 
 with  a  client  we've  discussed  what  we're 
 going  to  do  um  how  do  I  turn  something 
 like  this  this  current  situation  of  you 
 know  an  existing  yard  into  something 
 like 
 this  and  unfortunately  I  didn't  do  much 
 videoing  of  this  beforehand  note  wise 
 but  I  thought  let  me  take  you  on  the 
 next  phase  so  the  clients  got  excited  we 
 were  going  to  wait  on  this  phase  but  it 
 looks  like  we're  moving  forward  on  the 
 next  phase  um  and  we're  going  to  do  a 
 continuation  of  what  you  just  saw  moment 
 go  um  in  this  area  so  the  goal  is  to 
 make  this  area  fit  um  uh  two  things 
 really  well  and  that's  going  to  be  the 
 boat  now  that  that's  a  roll  gate  so  a 
 boat  comes  back  and  it  comes  about  about 
 six  foot  off  of  this  tree  comes  all  the 
 way  to  the  tree  line  almost  the  tree 
 line  there  about  6  foot  away  from  the 
 tree  so  we're  going  to  disguise  that  um 
 first  um  we're  going  to  put  a  rock  pad 
 there  for  the  boat  so  that  way  it's  easy 
 access  in  and  out  and  easy  for  the  gate 
 to  roll  on  um  and  then  we're  going  to  um 
 Edge  it  nice  and  tight  so  that's  a 
 that's  a  nice  you  know  completed  pad 
 there  and  then  we're  going  to  then  we're 
 going  to  conceal  that  from  the  garden  so 
 we're  going  to  do  a  clusia  hedge 
 straight  hedge  on  just  on  the  outside  of 
 that  tree  there  and  that  clusia  hedge  is 
 going  to  be  about  5  foot  tall  um  and 
 that's  really  going  to  help  soften  that 
 boat  and  I  think  they're  going  to  let  it 
 get  eight  or  nine  foot  tall  because  the 
 boat's  kind  of  tall  so  um  and  in  order 
 to  um  reuse  this  hot  tub  we're  going  to 
 they're  going  to  relocate  this  here  um 
 and  the  me  and  then  we're  going  to  grade 
 this  out  put  a  pad  down  for  them  put  the 
 hot  tub  in  place  but  in  order  to  soften 
 the  hot  tub  against  the  the  shed  I'm 
 thinking  of  doing  like  a  there's  a 
 little  patio  section  here  so  I'd  like  to 
 do  a  nice  tesan  gray  Granite  because  we 
 have  that  in  the  other  part  of  this 
 Garden  and  we're  going  to  take  that 
 walkway  and  we're  going  to  um  we're 
 going  to  lead  it  to  the  hot  tub  itself 
 I'll  put  some  flagstone  in  it  that  way 
 it's  easy  access  for  bare  feet  of  course 
 um  and  then  the  the  so  the  jacuzzi  for 
 all  most  more  than  likely  is  going  to 
 end  up  right  here  I'm  going  to  soften 
 the  backside  with  I  think  ceria  Palms 
 cuz  they  only  grow  9  ft  and  they're  not 
 going  to  get  into  this  oak  tree  and  it's 
 going  to  kind  of  keep  that  soft  look  but 
 I'm  going  to  put  that  like  on  the  wall 
 of  the  shed  so  I  can  soften  that  shed 
 and  then  I'm  going  to  take  and  do  a  nice 
 little  planter  right  here  to  kind  of 
 give  us  an  entrance  feel  um  to  the 
 jacuzzi  area  so  I'm  going  to  do  a  little 
 planting  here  and  a  planting  that  goes 
 from  the  jacuzzi  box  here  and  Cur  all 
 the  way  around  and  goes  to  the  shed 
 section  there  so  that  way  um  just 
 leaving  enough  access  for  maintenance  um 
 so  that  that  way  this  whole  area  feels 
 like  the  jacuzzi  is  within  the  garden 
 and  then  we're  going  to  take  and  let 
 that  kusia  hedge  that's  here  I'm  going 
 to  let  that  be  the  backdrop  of  this 
 Garden  so  there's  going  to  be  a  walkway 
 that  leads  around  the  clusia  but  I  need 
 the  plants  and  the  trees  to  kind  of  come 
 around  this  oak  tree  to  kind  of  mimic 
 what  we  did  over  here  but  I'm  going  to 
 take  what  we  did  here  and  I'm  going  to 
 going  to  redo  it  there  so  that  is  now 
 going  to  pull  forward  there  and  then 
 this  is  going  to  be  a  stone  walkway 
 leading  all  the  way  to  the  the 
 um  the  boat  area  I'm  going  to  I'm  going 
 to  take  and  Veer  it  off  and  do  a  nice 
 another  curve  around  plant  material 
 that's  on  this  corner  and  go  to  the 
 entrance  of  the 
 shed  and  then  of  course  it's  going  to  go 
 to  the  jacuzzi  area  and  then  it's  going 
 to  open  the  size  of  that  patio  deck 
 right  there  that  little  clustering  right 
 there  of  trees  we're  going  to  clean  all 
 those  arbac  colas  up  underneath  because 
 the  walkway  is  going  to  come  around  this 
 way  so  anytime  you  have  a  walkway  I  like 
 to  flank  both  sides  of  the  walkway  with 
 planting  so  that  planting  is  obviously 
 going  to  be  around  the  clusia  Hedge 
 there  so  I  want  to  take  this  planting 
 and  and  draw  this  out  6  seven  foot 
 because  right  there  is  their  living  room 
 window  and  I  want  that  to  be  the  focal 
 point  not  the  boat  and  I  didn't  want  to 
 completely  L  off  this  um  this  with  a 
 clusia  hedge  I  wanted  this  to  still  feel 
 like  a  very  soft 
 [Music] 
 planting  really  feels  like  they  can 
 literally  walk  all  the  way  around  their 
 yard  um  and  still  remain  in  that 
 tropical  garden  and  still  have  you  know 
 the  the  utilitarian  things  that  they 
 need  to  have  within  their  within  their 
 space  so  this  Garden  has  changed  a  great 
 deal  on  this  side  and  I  think  we  can 
 kind  of  continue  that  feel  all  the  way 
 around 
 to  the  opposite  side  so  this  is  kind  of 
 the  path  I'm  going  to  replicate  like  we 
 did  here  we're  going  to  do  the  same  on 
 the  opposite  side  with  the  same  gray 
 Granite  so  I  hope  that  little  planning 
 kind  of  helped  that's  kind  of  what  goes 
 inside  my  that's  going  on  inside  my  head 
 when  um  the  clients  are  walking  through 
 the  garden  with  me  telling  me  what's 
 going  to  stay  what's  going  to  go  um  I'm 
 I'm  taking  visual  notes  of  what  I  would 
 do  to  work  that  into  that  space  and 
 still  make  that  usable  but  still  but 
 then  give  it  an  aesthetic  punch  of  of  um 
 of  what  belongs  within  within  their 
 yard  all  right  so  I  will  um  get  a  final 
 follow-up  video  on  this  once  we  are  done 
 but  I  just  kind  of  wanted  to  let  you  in 
 behind  the  scenes  what  it  looks  like  um 
 after  I've  met  with  a  client  and  they've 
 kind  of  walked  me  through  their  ideas 
 and  then  I  share  my  ideas  and  then  I 
 kind  of  put  it  to  video  format  on  on  my 
 phone  so  when  I'm  creating  this  design  I 
 go  right  back  to  this  space  right  back 
 to  this  time  and  have  a  um  kind  of  get 
 back  into  into  that  mode  of  the  client 
 and  what  they're  looking  for  because 
 it's  very  very  important  for  me  to  to 
 Zone  in  on  on  the  feel  and  the  look 
 after  we've  had  about  you  know  45 
 minutes  together  to  really  share  with  me 
 what  their  thoughts  are  for  the  space  so 
 all  right  I  hope  this  guys  I  hope  it 
 helps  you  um  put  it  into  perspective  see 
 you  in  the  next  video

---

 so  hello  gardeners  welcome  back  today 
 Bryce  and  I  are  here  together  we  are 
 going  to  do  a  garden  tour  and  this  one 
 is  a  treat  glad  to  join  you  guys  love 
 being  on  here  this  is  way  harder  than  I 
 give  her  so  much  credit  looking  into  the 
 camera  and  talking  and  being  able  like 
 to  communicate  and  like  her  vision  and 
 be  able  to  tell  you  guys  a  story  it's  so 
 incredible  and  let  me  just  say  one  thing 
 really  quickly  I  get  to  come  back  U  from 
 school  every  so  often  and  I  get  the  the 
 ability  to  come  and  look  at  what  you 
 guys  design  it's  truly  amazing  I'm  your 
 biggest  fan  out  of  everybody  so  true 
 Gardener  guys  we  love  this  well  I 
 appreciate  that  and  and  it's  it's  a  lot 
 easier  when  you  have  somebody  behind  the 
 camera  that  you  trust  and  uh  you  totally 
 uh  you  totally  do  that  for  me  so  I'm  so 
 grateful  that's  why  I'm  so  glad  that  he 
 comes  back  and  does  this  for  us  and  and 
 it  also  is  much  much  better  than  my 
 camera  work  and  you  get  to  see  the  whole 
 picture  so  and  that's  kind  of  what  I  I 
 hope  that  comes  across  on  camera  is  that 
 you  guys  get  to  see  just  kind  of  how  it 
 all  it's  all  created  together  it's  not 
 it's  not  just  one  plant  or  one  tree  it's 
 kind  of  a  recipe  and  I  kind  of  hope  that 
 that  comes  across  on  um  on  film  because 
 if  um  if  you  can  see  that  then  you  can 
 do  that  and  I  I  think  that  um  and  I  just 
 you  know  want  to  encourage  everybody  to 
 get  out  in  their  garden  and  create  some 
 of  these  magical  places  speaking  of 
 magical  places  today's  video  was 
 originally  going  to  be  about  um  Garden 
 buffers  um  creating  some  privacy  from 
 neighbors  because  my  clients  here  Calli 
 and  Andrew  hello  I  know  you  guys  are 
 watching  Calli  and  Andrew  um  Wanted 
 privacy  um  all  kind  of  around  the  house 
 they  have  got  a  beautiful  yard  I  cannot 
 wait  to  share  it  with  you  guys  they've 
 got  um  you  know  private  sections  um  of 
 the  yard  different  Vistas  throughout  the 
 whole  space  like  this  the  where  we're 
 sitting  right  here  where  we're  covered 
 under  this  pergula  and  we  put  in  um  some 
 beautiful  Jasmine  some  gardinas  over  on 
 the  other  side  that  I  mean  I'm  literally 
 it  just  smells  amazing  sitting  right 
 here  so  um  and  then  we've  got  a  little 
 fire  pit  section  with  the  waterfall  and 
 that's  of  course  buffered  and  private 
 and  then  we've  got  a  sidey  area  that 
 they  relax  in  that's  buffered  in  private 
 and  um  so  I  thought  this  is  going  to  be 
 a  great  privacy  tour  video  but  at  the 
 same  time  I  I  thought  it  might  just  be  a 
 good  idea  and  so  did  Bryce  to  to  share 
 with  you  um  how  they  use  this  space  when 
 I  met  Andrew  in  cie  gosh  it's  been  I 
 said  about  3  years  now  we've  did  our 
 first  phase  here  they  were  both  so  on 
 point  with  what  they  wanted  which  is 
 very  unusual  for  me  as  a  as  a  landscape 
 designer  to  have  a  husband  and  wife  both 
 kind  of  share  the  same  vision  for  their 
 space  normally  it's  the  exact  opposite 
 and  I'm  trying  to  find  a  middle  ground 
 so  that  way  I'm  giving  them  exactly  what 
 they're  looking  for  and  um  and  kind  of 
 meshing  those  Styles  together  but  Andrew 
 Andrew  and  Cali  were  just  like  they  they 
 wanted  a  home  that  that  was  their 
 vacation  home  they  wanted  a  home  that 
 was  like  a  resort  where  you  know  they 
 would  they  would  come  here  they  would 
 share  U  their  space  they  would  entertain 
 they  have  tons  of  families  here  um  I've 
 just  gotten  so  many  pictures  over  the 
 years  of  all  of  them  enjoying  hanging 
 out  by  the  waterfall  and  night  pictures 
 over  there  of  them  um  you  know  on  um 
 around  the  fire  pit  with  the  lights  lit 
 up  and  it's  just  it  it's  it's  become  I 
 mean  they  made  it  a  reality  and  they 
 both  right  from  the  very  beginning  when 
 the  house  was  still  in  her  construction 
 knew  exactly  what  they  wanted  and  funny 
 story  I  was  telling  Bryce  this  earlier 
 and  he  said  definitely  share  it  with  you 
 guys  um  so  uh  Callie  cie  called  me  first 
 and  um  she's  like  our  House's  under 
 construction  so  it's  still  new  um  in  in 
 the  process  of  kind  of  getting  the 
 Landscaping  going  but  we  know  we  want 
 Gardens  we  know  we  want  we  want  a  space 
 that's  going  to  um  you  it's  just  going 
 to  transport  you  from  one  area  to 
 another  we  know  we  want  individual 
 little  scening  sections  we  know  we  want 
 places  for  people  to  gather  and  you  know 
 when  we  entertain  a  bunch  of  people  that 
 you  know  some  people  could  come  here  and 
 some  people  can  enjoy  the  space  there 
 and  then  work  their  way  all  the  way 
 around  the  are  just  like  you  would  in  a 
 resort  and  um  and  so  she  knew  what  she 
 wanted  and  then  she  found  me  on  YouTube 
 and  it  must  have  been  my  very  first 
 YouTube  video  that  I  put  out  I  think  it 
 was  my  backyard  tour  and  she's  like  I 
 saw  your  tour  of  your  backyard  it's 
 exactly  what  we're  looking  for  we  want  a 
 really  kind  of  jungle  Vibe  very  full 
 very  Lush  and  I'm  like  okay  great  um  so 
 I  was  getting  ready  to  meet  her  and  she 
 when  I  met  her  she  her  and  her  her  and 
 Andrew  she  told  me  that  her  husband  had 
 found  somebody  also  online  he  said  and 
 so  she's  like  that's  fine  we'll  get  a 
 quote  from  both  of  them  and  um  and  so 
 she  goes  and  then  apparently  I  was  the 
 same  person  he  found  the  same  video  on 
 YouTube  that  she  found  and  we  ended  up 
 obviously  the  rest  is  history  we  worked 
 together  over  the  past  three  years  and 
 they  just  have  been  fantastic  to  work 
 with  and  um  I  hope  you  guys  enjoy  their 
 space  and  hope  you  guys  are  kind  to  them 
 because  they're  the  kindest  people  um  so 
 it's  it's  just  been  it's  so  crazy  to  see 
 what  your  YouTube  Community  has  really 
 turned  into  yeah  isn't  it  and  like  you 
 were  saying  earlier  um  you  know  I  know 
 you  said  that  this  is  hard  on  camera 
 looking  into  that  lens  so  tough  it  it 
 it's  it  is  and  definitely  in  the 
 beginning  it  was  but  you  know  what  makes 
 it  different  is  that  now  I  feel  like 
 when  I'm  looking  into  this  lens  it's  I 
 I'm  responding  to  comments  I'm 
 responding  to  you  know  Becky  boots  I'm 
 responding  to 
 di  we  we  respond  to  the  people  who  are 
 constantly  commenting  and  sharing  their 
 opinions  and  their  thoughts  about  the 
 videos  and  I  think  that  that's  just  so 
 cool  because  it's  it's  not  looking  into 
 a  camera  anymore  there  is  a  community 
 out  there  that  you  know  we've  um  we've 
 grown  to  really  enjoy  talking  to  so  so 
 yeah  so  this  is  just  another  video  of  us 
 sharing  what  we  do  and  um  Bryce  is  going 
 to  be  behind  the  camera  yet  again  and 
 he's  going  to  hopefully  get  some  good  um 
 wide  angle  um  shots  so  that  way  you  guys 
 can  see  the  spaces  and  and  how  things 
 have  grown  this  Garden  is  about  three 
 years  old  there's  some  newer  spots  and 
 some  some  um  some  spots  that  you  know 
 are  still  under  construction  the  only 
 negative  to  this  um  this  entire  Garden 
 is  they  are  on  reclaimed  water  so  it  is 
 tough  sometimes  for  their  watering  cycle 
 um  so  the  the  homeowners  have  battled 
 some  of  that  um  which  means  that  they 
 don't  get  to  water  every  time  they  want 
 to  water  their  their  watering  cycle  is 
 about  about  one  to  two  days  a  week  so  it 
 can  be  a  stress  on  some  of  the  plants  so 
 so  bear  with  them  on  that  but  overall  I 
 just  think  they've  done  a  gorgeous  job 
 in  the  garden  and  it's  just  you  know 
 it's  just  the  tropical  forest  that  they 
 wanted  so  I  um  I  hope  you  guys  will  be 
 kind  to  them  in  the  comments  and  let 
 them  know  what  uh  what  you  think  but  is 
 there  anything  you  want  to  to  add  before 
 we  start  whether  you're  a  new  subscriber 
 old  subscriber  just  make  sure  you  like 
 And  subscribe  and  hit  that  notification 
 Bell  down  below  so  you're  notified 
 whenever  we  post  we  try  to  go  at  least 
 once  or  twice  a  week  so  that's  really  it 
 but  I  hope  you  guys  enjoy  yeah  what 
 you're  going  to  see  in  today's  video  is 
 more  walking  and  talking  about  just 
 different  vistas  of  the  space  so  um 
 we're  going  to  we're  going  to  break  it 
 up  into  four  sections  but  you'll  get  to 
 see  EXA  what  each  space  holds  and  um  and 
 I  will  tell  you  as  you  know  what  I  can 
 about  each  area  or  each  plant  grouping 
 and  then  and  kind  of  why  I  chose  to 
 design  it  this  was  a  blank  slate  when  I 
 first  got  here  absolutely  nothing  here 
 barely  the  house  so  it  um  it  was 
 surrounded  by  houses  all  the  way  around 
 it  and  we'll  try  to  get  some  some 
 outside  visuals  so  you  guys  get  to  kind 
 of  get  to  see  what  what  they  were 
 dealing  with  and  this  is  a  corner  lot  so 
 Corner  lots  are  fantastic  for  for  for 
 size  but  the  negative  is  you're  kind  of 
 in  a  fishbowl  when  you're  on  a  corner 
 lot  so  that  they  definitely  wanted 
 privacy  so  that's  what  we're  going  to 
 see  we're  going  to  see  some  privacy 
 buffers  this  property  is  in  North 
 Melbourne  Florida  over  in  the  Vieira 
 area  so  uh  those  of  you  guys  who  are  a 
 little  bit  north  we  were  at  that  that 
 cut  off  point  where  things  can  freeze  so 
 there's  a  lot  more  cold  tolerant 
 material  here  than  there  is  in  the 
 project  that  we  just  finished  down  south 
 so  um  you  know  it's  just  it  you  know 
 that  Stewart  area  is  way  more  open  than 
 what  we  can  use  here  in  Melbourne  and  so 
 you'll  get  to  see  some  cooler  tolerant 
 material  uh  for  those  of  you  guys  who 
 are  here  for  more  than  inspiration  and 
 looking  to  have  some  landscape  work  done 
 then  give  me  a  shout  my  name  is  Jennifer 
 again  I  own  construction  landscape  with 
 my  husband  here  in  Bureau  Beach  we're 
 family-owned  business  we  have  an 
 in-house  landscape  team  I  do  all  the 
 design  work  and  my  husband  and  our 
 in-house  landscape  team  that  we  work 
 with  every  single  day  handles  the 
 installation  so  um  we  are  a  u  concept  to 
 completion  type  of  company  so  we  design 
 and  we  install  our  designs  and  we  do 
 that  all  along  the  treasure  in  Space 
 Coast  and  I'll  get  Bryce  to  stick  up  a 
 map  somewhere  up  here  of  where  our 
 services  are  if  you  guys  would  like  to 
 know  more  about  us  I'll  put  the  link  of 
 our  website  in  the  description  down 
 below  please  reach  out  to  us  and  I  would 
 love  to  see  the  possibilities  and  what 
 we  can  do  with  your  space  but  for  now 
 and  as  she  always  likes  to  say  grab  a 
 bottle  of  wine  maybe  not  a  bottle  glass 
 of  wine  your  notepad  and  get  a  nice 
 comfy  seat  this  is  probably  going  to  be 
 a  long  one  yeah  this  might  be  a  little 
 bit  so  all  right  you  guys  I  look  forward 
 to  see  you  in  a  sec  and  we're  going  to 
 start  this  tour 
 this  is  the  area  that  we  were  just  here 
 sitting  and  enjoying  that  conversation 
 um  this  is  a  pergula  that  we  um  we  had 
 constructed  while  we  were  doing  the 
 initial  installation  it  was  part  of  my 
 design  um  Green  Thumb  came  out  and  did  a 
 beautiful  job  on  installing  the  perula 
 and  then  we  ended  up  adding  see  some  uh 
 Jasmine  some  Confederate  jasmine  which 
 make  this  place  smell  amazing  so  um 
 they've  gotten  some  swings  here  um  Bryce 
 and  I  have  really  we  spent  the  last  half 
 hour  really  enjoying  sitting  here  and  uh 
 just  admiring  just  the  little  peaceful 
 little  Serene  spot  that  this  has  become 
 this  is  right  off  of  their  kind  of  side 
 equipment  area  so  this  is  pretty  much  a 
 side  yard  Garden  um  all  of  their 
 equipment  uh  pool  equipment  and 
 everything  is  housed  in  this  spot  here 
 so  we  kind  of  put  in  a  gate  with  kind  of 
 surrounded  plant  material  to  really  give 
 this  more  of  a  jungle  feel  and  kind  of 
 buffer  what's  going  on  behind  uh  behind 
 the  gate  there  so  and  then  this  space 
 here  because  we  wanted  a  side  patio  that 
 came  off  the  pool  deck  um  the  this  house 
 the  way  it's  angled  was  a  pretty  big 
 Visual  and  they  were  only  able  to  do  a 
 an  aluminum  fence  a  4ft  aluminum  fence 
 so  we  brought  in  some  surprise  surprise 
 pigm  8  palms  and  we've  got  three  pig8 
 Palms  here  a  triangle  fan  palm  as  the 
 centerpiece  there  and  a  couple  coconuts 
 anchoring  Each  corner  back  here  and  here 
 now  all  of  these  Palms  of  course  just 
 been  trimmed  so  they  were  were  full  and 
 heavy  just  a  few  days  ago  but  we  Trimm 
 them  for  them  about  a  couple  times  a 
 year  and  just  so  you  guys  know  we  do 
 have  a  garden  service  for  those  of  you 
 guys  who  are  our  clients  and  if  you  need 
 kind  of  just  that  once  a  year  trimming 
 or  shaping  then  that's  definitely 
 something  that  we  do  as  part  of  our 
 service  so  give  us  a  shout  um  we  did 
 install  a  um  a  fountain  this  is  an 
 aquascapes  ear  Fountain  it  has  um  a 
 hunter  gallon  Reservoir  that  goes 
 underneath  the  ground  that  holds  water 
 um  really  really  just  a  nice  over  all 
 soft  subtle  more  of  a  bird  bath  kind  of 
 bubble  for  this  spot  and  then  we 
 surrounded  it  with  some  um  monsteras 
 some  split  leaf  monsteras  and  they're 
 really  doing  the  job  of  giving  you  that 
 real  tropical  kind  of  jungle  Vibe  so  um 
 and  then  the  backdrop  of  all  the  Palms  I 
 think  is  just  growing  in  so  nicely  and 
 those  Palms  continue 
 on  all  the  way  around  this  patio  seating 
 section  I  mean  I  don't  know  Bryce  if  you 
 can  get  a  closeup  of  those  mango  croin 
 but  oh  my  gosh  what  stunners  they 
 are  and  then  that's  a  secondary  buffer 
 that  buffers  their  pool  area  with  same 
 type  of  concept  with  the  triangle  fan 
 palm  the  pyme  DAT  palm  and  Bryce  if  you 
 can  show  our  garden  friends  just  how 
 close  that  other  screen  room  is  to  this 
 screen  room  I  mean  it's  like  I  don't 
 know  maybe  40  ft  um  at  at  most  it's  it's 
 relatively  close 
 to  right  across  from  one  another  so 
 [Music] 
 and  then  this  here  is  a  triple  King 
 Alexander  it  is  really  grown  in  over  the 
 last  three  years  and  um  I  love  how  it 
 has  such  a  dynamic  short  trunk  and  then 
 two  two  stagger  trunks  to  the  back  they 
 give  you  great  coverage  great  Leaf  span 
 and  they're  just  a  overall  tough  plant 
 and  um  have  done  so  well  with  some  of 
 the  cold  snaps  that  we've  had  over  the 
 last  few  years  so  they're  a  fantastic 
 fantastic  feature  in  the  garden  and  I 
 don't  know  what  kind  of  upright  vertical 
 Palm  gives  you  a  better  wide  canopy 
 coverage  than  this  especially  when  it's 
 planted  like  you  see  here  see  how  I  it 
 staggered  so  facing  you  is  the  small 
 palm  and  then  obviously  the  the 
 staggered  Palms  to  the  back  give  you 
 kind  of  a  layered  grouping  so  they  do  a 
 nice  job  of  giving  you  like  a  good 
 amount  of  blockage  and  then  we  have  a 
 Chinese  van  Palm  tucked  over  here  in 
 this  corner  so  we've  really  worked  with 
 the  space  the  most  that  we  could  the 
 back  area  there  is  easy  access  it's  just 
 grass  so  you  can  get  from  one  point  to 
 to  another  very  very  easy  and  the  mower 
 can  get  back  there  and  and  and  work  so 
 overall  it's  just  a  nice  nice  cool  space 
 to  work  with  and  we're  surrounded  by 
 Palms  Bryce  and  I  were  just  sitting  here 
 and  you  could  literally  when  that  wind 
 picks  up  all  you  hear  is  that  ruffle 
 sound  of  palms  and  it's  just  I  don't 
 know  it's  just  amazing  I  um  I've  had  a 
 chance  a  few  few  times  to  sit  here  with 
 cie  and  and  talk  with  her  and  it  was 
 this  is  it's  just  a  great  spot  to  be  so 
 I'm  so  glad  that  they  enjoy  it  and  I  see 
 evidence  of  them  enjoying  it  and  the 
 waterfall  feature  as  well  she  has  a 
 little  herb  garden  right  behind  you 
 there 
 Bryce  and  then  over  on  the  left  our 
 gardinia  is  in  full 
 bloom  so  it's  going  to  town  so  between 
 the  sense  of  the  gardinia  and  the  sense 
 of  these  um  Jasmine  it's  just  the  spot 
 is  killer  for 
 [Music] 
 fragrance  all  of  this 
 it's  just  coming  out  of  season 
 so  so  and  this  is  the  walking  path  that 
 joins  the  front  so  um  I'll  try  not  to 
 trip  and  share  this  with  you  guys  but 
 this  is  just  a  flagstone  walking  path 
 that  has  a  lot  of  heavy  foliage  on 
 either  side  of  it  again  imagine  this 
 this  was  a  very  wide  open  sidey  yard 
 space  with  nothing  but  grass  here  but 
 these  canopies  overhanging  each  other 
 just  are  just  so  magical  it's  so  Secret 
 gardish  you  know  it's  like  what's  going 
 on  back  here  we  just  have  a  lot  of 
 lushness  on  either  side  of  this  really 
 secret  pathway  and  um  right  here  we  have 
 some  sloppy  painters  and  these  are  doing 
 exactly  what  they're  intended  to  do  you 
 can  kind  of  see  how  there's  just  a  Mad 
 Dash  of  five  or  six  of  them  in  here  they 
 were  really  small  when  we  put  them  in  um 
 they're  keeping  them  around  the  4ft 
 range  but  I  would  love  to  see  them  get  5 
 foot  I  think  that's  a  nice  ideal  size 
 for  this  little  bright  clustering 
 because  this  is  a  dark  area  now  that 
 these  canopies  have  grown  in  um  and  then 
 we  have  a  little  pop  of  those  and  the 
 ice  tone  croin  the  pink  coloring  down 
 down  below  which  naturally  stay  a  little 
 smaller  than  the  sloppy 
 painters  and  then  we  have  some  Chinese 
 fan  Palms  that  add  to  that  very  jungle 
 Vibe 
 feel  and  then  it  leads  out 
 to  this 
 lovely  Fountain  feature  so  this  is  a 
 spot  I  gotten  tons  and  tons  of  photos  of 
 this  is  a  spot  where  Callie  and  and 
 Andrew  and  the  kids  really  enjoy  sitting 
 um  obviously  this  is  a  very  well-used 
 fire  pit  and  we  created  this  as  a  pretty 
 much  an  outdoor  open  park-like  seating 
 section  so  these  Royal  Palms  are  going 
 to  create  a  almost  like  roofline  canopy 
 here  and  then  um  the  they  kind  of 
 everything  else  kind  of  surrounds  the 
 water 
 feature  this  is  right  off  of  their 
 driveway  so  this  is  pretty  much  it's 
 just  right  off  the  edge  or  right  off  the 
 side  of  their  driveway  so  at  one  point 
 it  was  obviously  nothing  but  just  bare 
 Bare 
 Grass  and  this  is  what  they 
 see  over 
 here  at  this 
 angle  when  they  first  pull  into  their 
 driveway  this  is  right  where  they  go  to 
 to  entertain  this  is  where  they  go  to  to 
 to  um  I  mean  I've  seen  their  their  um 
 pictures  of  their  Church  crowd  here  it's 
 just  so  nice  they  really  do  really  do 
 Joy  enjoy  and  sit  in  this  spot  um  we 
 contracted  with  Ricardo  to  put  up  these 
 um  these  lights  for  them  and  and  set 
 some  poles  in  the  ground  and  I  just 
 think  it  is  just  a  nice  job  of  giving 
 them  that  soft  glow  at  night  so  they 
 have  some  beautiful  landscape  lighting 
 they've  got  some  colored  lights  for  the 
 water  feature  and  it's  just  an  overall 
 Charming  space  for  them  to  you  know  sit 
 and  relax  these  Royal  Palms  were  about 
 about  18t  when  we  planted  them  maybe  17 
 18  foot  you  can  really  see  they're 
 growing  into  their  own  in  this  space  so 
 these  guys  have  matured  in  size  they 
 matured  in  width  they  really  did  become 
 The  Columns  of  this  structure  this  is 
 this  is  almost  like  we  created  a  room 
 with  these  individual  columns  and  then 
 those  canopies  are  going  to  give  us  the 
 roof  line  and  it's  just  going  to  be  so 
 Charming  so  I  cannot  wait  to  see  this 
 continue  to  grow  and  establish  and  and 
 become  the  room  that  it  was  intended  to 
 become  and  you  guys  and  I  know  Royal 
 Palm  get  large  but  look  at  the  size  of 
 this  house  this  is  just  one  corner  of 
 the  house  and  and  it's  a  pretty  good 
 siiz  corner  lot  so  coming  in  with  small 
 Palms  even  foxtail  palms  would  probably 
 take  a  very  long  time  for  them  to  really 
 kind  of  create  that  same  type  of  impact 
 that  what  these  Palms  offer  so  it  was 
 important  for  us  to  start  with  some 
 mature  trees  and  plants  and  that  was 
 that  was  an  important  thing  for  for  cie 
 and  Andrew  so  um  we've  got  some  tahan 
 gray  Grant  it  leading  up  the  pathway 
 here  to  a  little  seating  section  and 
 then  um  of  course  we've  got  some  regular 
 River  Rock  within  the  rest  of  the  the 
 the  landscape  that  they  had  originally 
 um  we've  got  a  cold  coconut  that's  an 
 Alfred  coconut  pal  over  there  so  that  is 
 not  a  regular  coconut  palm  that's  the 
 one  that  can  handle  the  cold  temp  it  can 
 it  doesn't  provide  coconuts  and  then 
 there's  a  little  baby  Alfred  right  next 
 to  it  so  this  area  gets  a  lot  of  a  lot 
 of  time  um  where  where  friends  and 
 family  have  sit  here  so  I  can  uh  I  so 
 that  just  it  just  warms  my  heart  you 
 know  to  see  that  we've  surrounded  the 
 backside  of  this  waterfall  feature  with 
 some  um  kusia  you  can  see  where  we 
 started  with  one  section  and  one  phase 
 and  then  this  was  um  another  phase  last 
 year  so  um  it's  it's  kind  of  it's  you 
 know  like  just  all  like  Landscaping  is 
 it's  ever  evolving  we  did  the  waterfall 
 feature  because  they  spent  so  much  time 
 enjoying  sitting  here  by  the  by  the  fire 
 pit  that  having  fire  and  water  to  me  is 
 just  it's  just  the  the  perfect  spot  to 
 be  they  spend  so  many  evenings  out  here 
 listening  to  the  sound  of  this  water  and 
 enjoying  being  being  out  and  about  even 
 if  you're  not  lighting  a  fire  this  is 
 still  a  great  spot  to  have  a  glass  of 
 wine  I  think  over  to  the  side  here  we've 
 got  a  mix  of  mulch  and  rock  like  I  like 
 to  do  these  things  like  a  little  bit 
 more  moisture  so  I've  got  some  dwarf 
 exor  here  to  give  it  a  nice  clean  look 
 I've  got  some  um  silver  for  Buttonwood 
 here  and  then  these  are  called  masked 
 trees  um  they're  nice  and  vertical  you 
 can  see  the  ones  that  are  not  getting 
 the  water  that  it  needs  unfortunately  um 
 are  doing  a  little  bit  of  a  struggle  but 
 they'll  bounce  back  it's  growing  back 
 and  got  new  growth  on  it  but  this  is 
 what  they're  supposed  to  look  like  so  um 
 I  just  think  they're  such  a  staple  in 
 the  garden  and  the  only  negative  to  them 
 is  they  do  really  like  that  watering  so 
 um  at  the  time  that  when  we  did  the 
 design  in  the  installation  Callen  or  I 
 did  realize  that  they  had  reclaimed 
 water  within  this  community  which  really 
 can  limit  your  water  and  you  can 
 absolutely  not  have  water  for  weeks  at  a 
 time  so  it  can  be  a  bit  of  a  challenge 
 for  them  but  it's  not  stopped  them  from 
 wanting  to  create  a  beautiful  garden 
 environment  for  their  home  so  I  think 
 that  we'll  we'll  end  this  section  right 
 here  and  we'll  start  up  in  the  front 
 yard  and  then  they've  got  a  beautiful 
 sidey  yard  buffer  planting  where  they're 
 planning  on  putting  a  hammock  and  and 
 being  another  little  kind  of  cozy  more 
 private  space  where  we  did  some  great 
 fishtail  pond  in  there  so  we'll  end  over 
 in  that  section  so  see  you  in  a  second 
 so  right  before  we  go  to  the  front  yard 
 Bryce  um  wanted  me  to  mention  this 
 little  corner  area  um  this  section  right 
 here  is  exactly  the  back  section  or  the 
 the  front  version  of  where  we  were  just 
 looking  so  the  the  back  area  is  where  we 
 were  just  walking  through  the  pathway 
 this  is  what  buffers  that  space  from  the 
 driveway  so  we  have  got  a  beautiful  Trio 
 of  Royal  Palms  here  we've  got  a  Chinese 
 fan  palm  clustering  in  the  back  and 
 there's  one  to  the  left  and  the  backside 
 there  that's  what  gives  you  that 
 concealed  look  that  really  dark  dark 
 green  leaf  and  then  we've  got  some  pyate 
 palms  and  so  you  guys  when  I  say  pigment 
 eight  Palms  will  give  you  forever 
 coverage  now  obviously  these  have  been 
 trimmed  nice  and  tight  because  they  want 
 to  access  this  area  um  their  panels  are 
 here  and  and  and  somewhat  so  they  really 
 do  need  to  get  in  here  but  um  so  they 
 keep  theirs  up  higher  but  you  can  kind 
 of  see  where  this  is  still  nice  and 
 green  technically  you  can  keep  your 
 pygmies  down  to  here  um  and  then  these 
 are  full  grown  so  these  this  is  kind  of 
 what  you're  going  to  get  from  a  pygme  8 
 pal  when  they  get  coverage  so  if  you  put 
 in  a  trio  of  pyme  8  Pals  and  you  allow 
 their  canopies  to  have  be  nice  and  full 
 they  pretty  much  give  you  a  solid 
 grouping  of  blockage  um  in  this  area  and 
 they're  doing  this  in  a  very  very  shade 
 environment  so  imagine  if  they're  in  the 
 Sun  how  thick  and  dense  those  canopies 
 get  so  it's  a  it's  kind  of  a  now  that 
 you  get  to  see  one  more  and  more 
 matured  so  but  I  just  think  this  is  a 
 great  great  BL  bit  of  blockage  it's 
 beautiful  it's  the  first  thing  that  you 
 see  it's  part  of  the  front  yard 
 landscaping  but  really  what  it  does  is 
 it  does  mostly  conceal  the  back  section 
 so  you  get  um  you  know  you  just  get  the 
 benefit  of  of  a  front  and  back 
 Landscaping  within  one  Island  but  now 
 we're  going  to  head  over  to  the  front  so 
 we've  made  it  to  the  front  yard  you  guys 
 the  front  yard  Garden  is  a  really  nice 
 elongated  space  a  nice  elongated  uh 
 paper  walkway  to  get  into  this  area  so 
 we  did  kind  of  soften  up  that  wall  by 
 creating  um  more  column  likee  so  you 
 know  i'  imagine  these  are  like  umbrellas 
 in  a  garden  so  you  kind  of  have  a  nice 
 little  kind  of  uh  thin  trunk  line  and 
 that  canopy  is  is  simplistic  and  soft 
 and  it's  not  overdone  and  they  do  a 
 great  job  when  you're  trying  to  pair 
 them  up  into  threes  and  fours  and  FIV  so 
 these  are  the  regular  Alexander  Palms  um 
 and  they  are  um  they're  just  a  nice 
 little  Staple  in  the  garden  and  then 
 right  here  we  have  kcia  is  our  backdrop 
 to  kind  of  drop  that  wall  a  little  bit 
 because  as  you  can  see  the  wall  line  up 
 here  is  really  really  aggressive  so 
 having  some  bigger  trees  to  do  that 
 really  makes  all  the  difference  in  the 
 world  and  that's  another  reason  why  we 
 went  with  the  these  Mass  trees  these 
 Mass  trees  do  give  you  that  that  like 
 you  know  that  just  pop  and  a  spot  you 
 know  they  really  are  just  a  at  a  cool 
 exclamation  mark  in  the  garden  they  draw 
 your  eye  to  the  front  door  so  this  is  um 
 the  Mast  tree  here  and  this  poor  guy  is 
 Flushing  back  but  you  can  tell  they've 
 had  some  drought  conditions  and  he's 
 lost  some  leaves  so  um  fertilizing 
 trying  to  get  him  back  to  his  his 
 natural  his  natural  look  we've  got  just 
 a  touch  of  gold  mound  in  here  and  some 
 lopy  and  some  young  baby  um  Blue 
 Agave  that  back  little  corner  here  Bryce 
 is  a  cat  palm  and  it's  back  in  this 
 little  Nook  here  and  then  we've  got  a 
 pigate  palm  triple  right  here 
 here  we  have  another  Alexander  pal  this 
 is  a  triple  Alexander  so  very  different 
 you  can  tell  from  the  King  Alexander 
 that  we  have  in  the  front  yard  or  excuse 
 me  in  the  backyard  little  Nook  that  we 
 had  the  King  Alexander  has  a  much  longer 
 branching  canopy  and  these  are  more 
 compact  more  ruffled  um  just  more  of  a  I 
 would  call  Old  Florida  look  so  they  do  a 
 nice  job  of  just  kind  of  not  being  too 
 aggressive  in  the  garden  back  in  the 
 back  I  wanted  more  more  thickness  more 
 denseness  this  I  wanted  more  trunk  and 
 then  a  little  canopy  at  the  top  because 
 I  don't  want  it  to  overtake  the  front  of 
 the  house  I  just  kind  of  want  a 
 structure  in  the  garden  more  more  like  a 
 um  a  statue  in  the  garden  speaking  of 
 structures  these  fox  tail  palms  are  fat 
 and  chunky  and  healthy  and  just  ah  this 
 you  can  you  can  tell  just  from  these 
 fronds  why  they  call  this  why  they  call 
 them  fox  tail  palms  because  they  just 
 look  like  fox  tails  these  just  nice 
 ruffled  fronds  are  are  absolutely 
 gorgeous  than  the  garden  they  really 
 have  a  different  kind  of  look  they're  uh 
 a  softer  more  delicate  look  but 
 definitely  a  thicker  denser  um  delicate 
 look  so  I  just  think  they  make  a  great 
 feature  in  the  garden  they  will  max  out 
 to  27  to  30  foot  tall  which  is  still  a 
 little  small  for  the  size  of  this  house 
 but  we  do  have  some  bigger  Palms  on  the 
 corners  and  then  these  these  regular 
 Alexanders  are  going  to  give  you  that 
 grand  height  too  so  um  right  here  we 
 have  an  Anderson  crepe  white 
 hibiscus  a  boulder  with  some  fakahatchee 
 grass  in  it  backed  by  again  that  big 
 leafy  jungle  kind  of  vibe  of  the  um 
 split  leaf  uh  filad 
 drian  we  have  three  um  good  size  kusia 
 as  your  first  bit  of  buffering  on  going 
 towards  their  sidey  yard  and  then  we've 
 anchored  it  with  a  royal  palm  on  this 
 side  so  even  though  these  fox  tail  palms 
 will  only  max  out  to  that  27  and  change 
 height  that  Royal  Palm  will  continue  to 
 grow  and  give  them  more  ump  all  the  way 
 at  the  corner  of  their  property  line 
 which  I  think  is  important  because  now 
 we've  got  good  anchors  we've  got  an 
 anchor  on  this  side  of  the  Corn  front 
 corner  of  the  house  and  if  you  guys 
 remember  the  project  or  the  size  that  we 
 were  just  on  over  by  the  driveway  that 
 we  videoed  before  we  got  here  we  have 
 those  three  Royal  Palms  anchoring  that 
 rear  corner  of  the  house  so  looking  at 
 from  the  road  even  though  this  is  kind 
 of  cockeyed  you're  getting  both  areas  of 
 Royal  Palms  um  on  both  sides  of  the 
 house  so  maybe  we'll  just  walk  right  in 
 and  and  go  through  the  G  Gate  entrance 
 here  another  Secret 
 Garden  so  we've  got  our  our  kusus  here 
 these  are  our  fishtail  Palms  so  Bryce 
 take  a  quick  peek  just  just  over  I  mean 
 politely  over  to  the  neighbor  side  and 
 then  um  you  know  let  everybody  see  what 
 like  and  I  I'll  try  to  slide  it  a  before 
 picture  if  I've  got  one  of  what  how 
 close  the  neighbor's  house  is  to  to 
 their  house  and  just  pretty  much  as  soon 
 as  you  open  the  gate  you  walked  right 
 out  and  it  was  just  a  wide  open  wide 
 open  gap  between  the  two  of  them  and 
 they  definitely  wanted  to  have  have  a 
 nice  private  little  buffer  planting  so 
 if  you're  looking  to  do  the  same 
 fishtail  Palms  are  a  fantastic  option 
 they  do  get  big  they  do  get  large  you 
 can  control  them  and  their  cluster  and 
 keep  them  like  a  clumping  planting  just 
 like  this  by  just  trimming  off  any 
 unwanted  trunks  overall  they  I  love 
 their  branching  I  love  how  they  hang 
 over  I  love  that  that  split  leaf  on 
 these  guys  I  think  it  looks  so  good  and 
 that  little  sound  where  when  it  the  wind 
 blows  that  tattering  is  just  absolutely 
 stunning  it's  just  such  a  it  makes  you 
 feel  like  you're  in  the  keys  it's  just 
 such  a  tropical  feel  and  I  love  this 
 rustic  bark  of  um  that  they  have  I  mean 
 just  how  cool  is  that  like  I'm  in 
 another  country  I  just  I  just  love  what 
 they  do  and  then  if  you  decide  to  put 
 some  lighting  under  these  guys  this 
 tattered  Leaf  like  you  see  here  it's  so 
 cool  the  shadow  is  so  cool  of  that  at 
 night  that  it's  just  it's  the  perfect 
 wall  because  it  you  can  tell  this  is  a 
 living  wall  um  between  the  movement  the 
 softness  and  because  it's  such  a  light 
 individual  Leaf  it's  constantly  moving 
 like  that  and  I  just  think  it's  so  cool 
 we  have  a  Hong  Kong  orchid  tree  right 
 here  that  in  the  storm  last  year  started 
 to  lean  hence  the  handy  dandy  little 
 strapping  that  we  got  going  on  here  but 
 um  I  don't  know  Bryce  if  you're  able  to 
 get  this 
 bloom  in  on  film  but  oh  my  gosh  look  at 
 the  bloom  on  that  guy  and  this  is  just 
 one  little  Bloom  they're  going  to 
 Cluster  out  all  the  way  around  here  with 
 multiple  of  those  little  flowers  like 
 that  and  they're  just  stunners  in  the 
 garden  it's  Hong  Kong  orchid 
 tree  and  what  they're  hoping  to  do  is 
 have  this  tree  where  the  canopy  comes  up 
 and  over  and  then  of  course  right  behind 
 Bryce  that  clusia  tree  is  going  to  block 
 it  from  the  road  so  all  you  see  is  a 
 little  Gap  around  this  bush 
 through  underneath  the  canopy  of  how 
 this  tree  kind  of  comes  over  and  this 
 tree  comes  over  then  you  have  like  a 
 just  a  little  pathway  leading  to  this 
 Garden  this  sidey  Garden  which  would 
 normally  just  be  a  patch  of  grass  on 
 their  sidey  section  now  it's  their  own 
 private  Garden  that  leads  to  their  pool 
 area  we  have  kusio  along  the  side  of  the 
 house  this  area  right  here  is  going  to 
 become  a  hammock  for  these  two  coconut 
 palms  it's  a  nice  little  cool  spot  to 
 sit  and  relax 
 and  um  then  again  because  Callie  is  a 
 woman  after  my  own  heart  where  she  loves 
 these  branching  Palms  kind  of  in  the  way 
 of  a  pathway  most  men  don't  but  Andrew 
 seems  to  be  perfectly  fine  with  it  um 
 and  then  that  way  they  have  just  these 
 paths  that  are  going  to  overc  connect 
 over  time  and  again  we're  walking 
 through  the  palms  or  underneath  the 
 Palms  um  to  to  reach  the  reach  the  um 
 the  screen  room 
 here  so  this  is  another  sidey  yard 
 buffer  and  I  told  you  guys  buffers  I 
 mean  this  is  buffers  should  be  should  be 
 the  title  of  this  video  if  you  want 
 privacy  there's  going  to  be  a  handful  of 
 things  that  you  can  pick  in  a  cooler 
 climate  that  are  going  to  do  really 
 really  well  for  a  privacy  buffer  but  we 
 have  a  buffer  here  and  I'm  going  to  let 
 Bryce  get  a  sneak  peek  right  behind  the 
 pool  area  there  and  on  the  other  side  of 
 the  pool  area  what  we  created  there  now 
 on  the  on  the  rear  side  of  the  pool  area 
 here  obviously  they  wanted  tropical  they 
 want 
 canopies  so  we've  got  a  double  fox  tail 
 in  the  middle  and  we've  got  some  single 
 fox  tails  on  either  side  with  some 
 pygmies  flank  in  the  corners  um  but  they 
 didn't  want  to  in  any  way  block  the  view 
 of  the  water  so  they're  looking  right 
 through  the  view  of  the  water  and  giving 
 themselves  plenty  of  canopy  again  kind 
 of  that  umbrella  feel  in  the 
 garden  right  here  we  have  a  little 
 walking  path  that  gives  you  the  focal 
 point  of  a  Sylvester  palm  in  the  middle 
 we've  got  a  pig  pyy  a  pygmy  a  pygmy  some 
 Chinese  fan  Pals  in  these  Corners  to 
 really  give  you  cuz  that  house  is  like 
 right  there  I  mean  like  if  I  if  I  said 
 hello  they'd  probably  say  hello  back  I 
 mean  it's  right  there  um  so  and  then 
 this  is  right  across  from  where  they 
 spend  their  time  at  the  pool  another 
 fire  feature  sitting  by  the  pool  with 
 the  kids  and  enjoying  their  space  so  I 
 can  see  why  they  wanted  this  space  here 
 to  really  enjoy  the  privacy  and  and  then 
 not  just  that  but  having  living  walls 
 instead  of  having  fences  that  it  just  it 
 it  it  changes  your  space  doesn't  it  I 
 mean  I  think  that's  why  that's  why 
 Resorts  go  through  all  that  effort  to 
 create  those  gorgeous  living  outdoor 
 spaces  with  jungle  Vibes  and  themes  and 
 colors  and  flowers  because  it  it  does 
 something  to  all  of  us  it  makes  us  feel 
 welcome  makes  us  feel  cozy  so  um  so 
 we're  going  to  continue  walking  through 
 we'll  let  you  guys  get  a  better  view  of 
 these  Foxdale  Palms 
 anchoring  the  back  of  the  pool 
 area  just  look  at  these  beefy 
 guys  I  don't  know  what  my  guys  are 
 feeding  them  but  oh  my  goodness  look  at 
 the  size  of  them  they  are  very  very 
 happy  they've  probably  grown  4  feet 
 since  we  planted  them  which  is  unusual 
 for  Fox  tailes  but  they're  pretty  big  I 
 don't  know  how  much  they've  grown  but 
 they  look  like  they  growing  a  lot  um 
 they're  very  very  happy  it's  a  double 
 fox  tail  Palm  in  the  middle  just  to  add 
 some  little  bit  of  a  different  structure 
 in  the  um  when  they're  looking  out  from 
 the  house  and  then 
 obviously  all  of  these  windows  that 
 Callie  and  Andrew  have  they're  all 
 leading  back  to  the  water  view  the  Palm 
 View  they  they've  really  managed  to 
 control  their  view  lines  with  everything 
 they  look  at  they  enjoy  seeing  you  know 
 they've  got  Gardens  on  both  sides  of 
 them  they've  got  all  around  and  water 
 everywhere  they  can  get  water  so  I  just 
 I  I  admire  what  what  um  we've  been  able 
 to  create  for  them  out  here  and  I'm  so 
 pleased  that  they  um  they  enjoy  it  as 
 much  as  they  do  so  we're  going  to  just 
 kind  of  Pop  right  around  here  Bryce  look 
 at  look  at  um  just  a  because  I  know  a 
 lot  of  you  guys  have  these  challenges  I 
 have  these  challenges  look  at  this  is 
 the  corner  of  their  screen  room  right 
 here  and  this  is  the  screen  room  right 
 here  the  neighbor  has  and  we're  going  to 
 go  inside  the  the  screen  room  area  and 
 you'll  you'll  be  so  surprised  of  what  um 
 how  how  controlled  they've  made  that 
 view  line  they  what  they're  not  seeing 
 and  what  they  are  seeing  which  I  I  I'm 
 really  really  pleased  with  especially 
 now  that  everything  is  really  starting 
 to  grow 
 [Music] 
 in  and  this  here  is  the  backside  of  what 
 we  we  were  just  looking  at  so  this  is 
 the  tail  of  the  flat  fan  triangle  Palm 
 so  it's  flat  along  the  screen  so  that 
 way  it  doesn't  interfere  with  the  screen 
 and  this  long  branching  arm  comes  out 
 and  over  top  of  the  back  side  of  the  Fe 
 of  the  the  buffer  area 
 so  and  here  is  one  of  my  favorite  croin 
 ever  the  mango  croin  this  croin  likes 
 the  protection  that  it's  getting  right 
 here  so  if  you  guys  are  ever  going  to 
 plant  mango  croin  give  it  it  a  little 
 bit  of  of  a  similar  situation  we're 
 going  to  put  a  palm  tree  on  either  side 
 of  it  it  gets  filter  light  because  it's 
 going  to  be  a  little  darker  where  it's 
 mostly  protected  and  then  right  along 
 the  edges  where  it's  getting  more  sun 
 you're  going  to  see  it's  way  more 
 vibrant  and  when  Bryce  comes  over  to  the 
 other  side  you'll  really  be  able  to  see 
 where  that  Sun  hits  right  off  the 
 walkway  how  even  more  vibrant  that 
 coloring  is  so  they're  fantastic  for  a 
 protected  area  and  as  the  plant  widens 
 out  and  searches  for  sun  the  tips  of 
 that  whole  plant  is  going  to  get  really 
 really  really  colorful  so  they're  just  a 
 cool 
 plant  and  why  don't  we  go  inside  here  so 
 you  can  get  a  good  visual  of  inside  the 
 pull 
 screen  and  Bryce  if  you'll  just  give  our 
 friends  a  sweep  of  of  the  outside  here 
 and  then  we're  off  to  the  jungle  again 
 so  we've  kind 
 of  back  where  we  started  so  this  is  the 
 great  smelling  pergula  seating  section 
 and  um  you  can  see  that  we've  used  a  lot 
 of  the  similar  palms  and  that  we've  used 
 throughout  the  whole  garden  all  the  way 
 around  here  so  I  um  I'm 
 just  I'm  just  wanting  to  share  how  easy 
 creating  even  as  big  as  the  space  is 
 it's  pretty  much  a  rinse  and  repeat  all 
 the  way  around  the  garden  you  know  we've 
 got  your  pygmies  for  your  short  chunky 
 Palms  those  are  what  I  call  my  level  two 
 Palms  you  know  the  Palms  that  are  going 
 to  be  fat  and  chunky  and  offer  you  the 
 most  privacy  the  most  coverage  for  a 
 very  very  long  period  of  time  in  your 
 garden  and  then  I've  got  my  level  one 
 trees  which  are  like  the  fox  tail  palms 
 the  coconut  palms  the  Royal  Palms  the 
 triangle  Palms  The  Palms  that  are  going 
 to  always  be  what  is  in  the  back  the  the 
 the  backdrop  palm  trees  the  ones  that 
 are  going  to  give  you  that  structure  and 
 that  if  I  were  to  start  in  a  in  a  garden 
 that's  always  where  I  start  with  the 
 design  where  are  going  to  be  my  what 
 what's  going  to  be  my  structure  trees  I 
 break  each  section  down  and  then  I  find 
 the  F  the  the  the  lines  or  the  the  hot 
 points  that  I  want  to  try  to  create  a 
 structure  in  the  garden  with  and  almost 
 it's  almost  like  a  columns  on  a  house 
 I'll  find  out  okay  so  I  want  some  on  the 
 corners  I  want  some  dead  center  in  the 
 middle  if  we're  trying  to  break  up  a 
 long  expanse  and  then  where  do  I  need  to 
 patch  in  my  level  two  trees  to  give  us 
 some  of  that  depth  some  of  that  deep  um 
 coverage  and  then  then  decorate  kind 
 tell  price  all  like  lipstick  and  mascara 
 you  just  decorate  with  the  rest  of  the 
 plant  material  along  the  base  so  it's  um 
 it's  just  kind  of  as  easy  as  that  it's 
 really  a  process  that  you  that  you  um 
 you  kind  of  just  do  over  and  over  again 
 and  I  honestly  think  that  um  I  honestly 
 think  that  even  if  you  guys  are  starting 
 out  with  seven  gallon  material  you're 
 starting  out  with  something  you're 
 putting  in  the  back  of  your  SUV  start 
 there  start  with  your  fox  tail  start 
 with  your  pygmy  start  with  your  your 
 your  your  level  one  trees  and  then  let 
 that  sit  for  a  little  while  and  then 
 come  in  at  at  a  later  date  and  realize 
 oh  you  know  what  these  are  creating  more 
 shade  than  I  originally  had  in  that  spot 
 because  now  they're  opening  up  the 
 canopies  are  are  changing  um  your 
 environment  and  so  now  you  can  pop  in 
 things  like  you  things  that  you  may  like 
 like  like  the  mango  croin  now  there's 
 not  too  much  it's  not  full  sun  I  can  pop 
 in  some  mango  croin  underneath  those 
 canopies  and  then  as  those  trees  all 
 begin  to  grow  now  you're  popping  in  new 
 things  so  say  your  fox  tails  are  are 
 nice  nice  and  Broad  and  Tall  now  it's  a 
 few  years  later  well  now  you  run  across 
 some  Christmas  palms  and  you  know  the 
 fox  tailes  and  Christmas  Palms  are  not 
 going  to  compete  with  each  other  because 
 they're  always  going  to  grow  slower  so 
 you  pop  in  an  understory  tree  and  and 
 and  in  my  garden  I  know  you  guys  have 
 seen  it  where  I  pop  those  trees  in 
 within  a  real  real  narrow  space  so  I 
 almost  pile  them  on  top  of  each  other 
 I'm  just  waiting  for  that  gap  of  time  to 
 happen  so  I  can  put  that  tree  underneath 
 that  tree  so  sometimes  I've  got  a  4ft 
 gap  of  of  of  depth  where  I'm  putting  in 
 another  tree  in  front  of  that  tree  and 
 as  long  as  I  fertilize  they  they  love 
 their  environment  I've  not  had  any 
 trouble  with  doing  that  so  you  just 
 always  want  to  make  sure  no  matter  where 
 um  where  you're  putting  in  a  tree  it's 
 not  ever  going  to  be  a  tree  that's  going 
 to  compete  with  that  tree  in  the  future 
 um  it's  not  going  to  out  grow  it  it's 
 not  going  to  grow  too  fast  so  so  check 
 that  out  online  before  you  um  before  you 
 figure  out  what  you're  going  to  do  um  in 
 your  garden  but  start  with  your 
 foundation  trees  work  your  way  down  from 
 there  and  no  matter  how  big  your 
 property  is  definitely  just  break  it  up 
 into  sections  and  it  becomes  manageable 
 so  and  that's  just  kind  of  how  I've 
 taken  on  every  project  over  the  past  25 
 years  so  um  well  you  know  I  hope  you 
 guys  enjoyed  this  kind  of  video  I  know 
 it's  not  your  typical  Garden  Tour  I  know 
 it  was  more  um  more  conversational  more 
 just  sharing  with  you  um  being  able  to 
 pop  back  and  to  see  such  a  beautiful 
 space  and  thinking  that  you  guys  might 
 enjoy  it  too  so  uh  it's  a  it's  a  bit 
 different  but  I  hope  you  guys  enjoyed 
 mine  and  Bryce's  Garden  Tour  and  uh 
 we'll  see  you  in  the  very  next  video  as 
 always  there's  things  I  miss  so  please 
 stick  them  in  the  comments  Down  Below  on 
 what  um  what  questions  or  comments  you 
 might  have  about  anything  with  the  Tim 
 stamp  um  on  it  and  I'll  do  my  best  to  to 
 answer  that  and  tell  you  what  that  is  um 
 and  then  of  course  like  subscribe  check 
 us  out  on  Instagram  I'm  going  to  start 
 singing  that  like  a  jingle  because 
 that's  the  way  I'll  remember  it  and  then 
 hit  that  notification  Bell  when  one  of 
 our  videos  pop  up  you  guys  will  get  a 
 chance  to  see  it  so  so  we  will  see  you 
 guys  in  the  very  next  video  and  as 
 always  good  to  talk  to  you  in  the 
 comments  and  see  you  later  bye-bye 
 [Music]

---

 so  hello  gardeners  welcome  back  so  this 
 is  kind  of  an  impromptu  video  but  I 
 could  not  wait  to  share  this  jungle 
 inspired  garden  with  you  guys  this  is  a 
 project  we  finished  yesterday  and  it's 
 kind  of  a  it's  kind  of  a  redesign  from  a 
 project  we  did  many  years  ago  um  so  the 
 foundation  was  in  but  now  it  was  time  to 
 really  really  Jazz  it  up  and  um  give 
 their  give  my  clients  that  that  jungle 
 Vibe  they're  looking  for  they  um  they 
 tend  to  visit  you  know  Costa  Rica  and 
 other  tropical  regions  um  and  they  just 
 they  wanted  to  bring  some  of  that  home 
 some  of  that  that  that  Lush  kind  of 
 jungle  Vibe  kind  of  real  thick  foliage 
 kind  of  garden  um  to  their  backyard  the 
 place  that  they  enjoy  the  place  they 
 entertain  family  and  friends  and  I  think 
 we  nailed  it  they're  super  happy  I 
 wanted  to  share  with  you  guys  just  the 
 transformation  of  how  it  came  out  and 
 then  I'm  going  to  go  into  the  plant 
 details  a  lot  of  these  plants  and  trees 
 even  though  they're  very  very  tropical 
 um  and  from  all  over  the  world  they're 
 absolutely  things  that  you  can  pick  up 
 at  you  know  most  Florida  nurseries  um 
 it's  it's  pry  pretty  much  just  about  how 
 they're  placed  and  I'm  going  to  share 
 with  you  guys  um  generally  you  know  the 
 locations  they  went  in  and  why  and  how 
 they're  going  to  grow  and  a  a  great  um 
 group  to  pair  together  where  your 
 maintenance  is  kind  of  at  a  lower  level 
 than  than  it  could  be  if  you  want  to 
 incorporate  that  jungle  Vibe  yourself  so 
 if  you're  excited  about  that  kind  of 
 look  stick  around  because  um  I'm  going 
 to  give  you  a  a  broad  list  of  material 
 plants  and  trees  that  um  that  you  can 
 you  can  recreate  this  look  for  yourself 
 in  your  garden  so  so  we're  going  to  Dive 
 Right  In  I'm  going  to  turn  this  camera 
 around  and  we'll  just  kind  of  a  quick 
 walk  through  I  will  slide  in  a  before 
 picture  so  you  guys  get  to  see  kind  of 
 what  we  started  with  which  was  not 
 terrible  but  um  definitely  the  the  new 
 look  is  really  really  going  to  really 
 fit  their  style  a  whole  lot  better  so  um 
 so  I  hope  you  guys  enjoy  the  video  and 
 I'll  see  you 
 soon  so  here  we  are  you  guys  we  are  on 
 the  left  side  of  their  home  and  this  is 
 their  sidey  yard  I'll  slide  in  a  before 
 picture  so  orig  originally  we  had  these 
 cat  palms  and  place  here  um  these  cat 
 poms  are  getting  um  all  morning  sun  into 
 early  afternoon  sun  so  I  brought  in  this 
 King  Alexander  that's  going  to  give  them 
 a  little  bit  more  shade  um  which  they're 
 going  to  really  appreciate  and  then  of 
 course  you  know  you  can't  have  a  jungle 
 entrance  without  some  fronds  kind  of 
 overlapping  and  and  kind  of  giving  you 
 that  big  impact  um  before  you  even  get 
 to  the  Garden  so  my  whole  goal  is  for 
 this  to  be  a  secret  garden  in  the  future 
 these  FRS  are  going  to  Branch  out  and 
 come  all  the  way  into  this  area  we're 
 doing  our  best  to  get  this  bottle  brush 
 fresh  tree  really  healthy  and  happy  we 
 put  a  fishtail  tree  behind  it  and  so 
 those  fronds  are  going  to  come  over  this 
 way  and  then  that  pyme  at  Palm  that  you 
 see  there  is  going  to  grow  that  at  10  to 
 12T  Max  and  kind  of  come  over  this  way 
 as  well  so  it's  really  going  to  do  a 
 nice  job  of  kind  of  framing  that  gate 
 really  giving  us  a  an  entrance  you  know 
 that's  that  this  spot  deserves  so  we 
 have  a  King  Alexander  triple  here  this 
 guy's  going  to  get  beautiful  he's 
 currently  about  about  14ot  tall 
 and  of  course  as  you  know  they  get  into 
 that  20  27t  range  um  then  three  cat 
 Palms  right  to  the  back  of  them  Blaze 
 copper  leaf  on  the  corners  here  and  over 
 there  and  then  it's  going  to  drop  down 
 with  some  golden  Dew  or  gold  Mound  at 
 the  front  now  as  you  come  along  the  wall 
 he  wanted  some  spice  some  color  because 
 you  can  see  this  from  the  sidewalk  by 
 the  front  door  or  by  the  front  walkway 
 and  um  these  red  roo  red  copper  Lea  are 
 going  to  do  that  by  in  a  nice  4T  curve 
 along  the  the  wall 
 there  then  again  we've  dropped  it  down 
 with  some  gold  Mound  just  below  the 
 triple  Pym  8  palm  and  my  goal  is  for 
 that  Pym  8  Palm  to  kind  of  come  over  to 
 the  left  and  really  just  kind  of  give  us 
 a  nice  a  nice  entry  feel  and  then  it's 
 going  to  pair  really  lovely  with  that 
 fishtail  Palm  on  the  left  corner  here  as 
 it  comes  over  and  that  tree  comes  over 
 then  then  the  garden  really 
 starts  so  before  before  this  was  a  bunch 
 of  um  struggling  grass  and  so  we  took 
 that  out  and  went  in  with  some  gray 
 Granite  now  this  is  not  the  tahan  gray 
 Granite  this  is  a  just  a  typical  gray 
 granite  and  I  love  it  it  Mounds  down 
 nice  and  tight  just  like  it's  or  packs 
 down  nice  and  tight  just  like  it's 
 supposed  to  creates  a  nice 
 walkway  we  did  a  little  bit  of  Flagstone 
 treatment  going  up  to  the  um  to  the 
 doorway  here 
 and  we've  got  some  gold  dust  croin  on 
 the  right  side  of  the 
 walkway  and  then  the  fun  kind  of  begins 
 with 
 these  gorgeous  plant  grooving  on  the 
 left  so  we  you  reused  um  their  Krum  lies 
 they  had  some  Kum  lilies  and  we  popped 
 in  some  Queen  Emma  to  kind  of  give  us 
 that  same  vertical  feel  on  the  left  here 
 these  um  Queen  Emma  have  gotten  some  or 
 these  uh  Kum  lies  have  gotten  some  size 
 to  them  but  um  so  you  can  see  those 
 little  trunks  at  the  bottom  what  the 
 goal  of  all  that  underplanting  that  you 
 see  there  with  the  Burl  marks  and  the 
 Rojo  Congos  those  are  going  to  do  a 
 great  job  of  becoming  a  skirt  so  this 
 part  down  will  disappear  and  you're 
 really  going  to  get  the  beauty  of  the 
 queen  Emma  and  the  crrom  lily  as  they 
 open  up  and  become  thicker  and  thicker 
 um  but  you  won't  get  to  see  that  stem 
 like  you're  seeing  right  now  but  they're 
 going  to  make  a  beautiful  focal  point  in 
 the  garden  and  just  to  give  us  a  little 
 bit  of  a  quicker  response  with  that  you 
 know  that  ground  coverage  I've  got  two 
 monsteras  in  that  grouping  now  I  know 
 two  monsteras  don't  seem  like  a  lot  but 
 they're  going  to  do  a  fabulous  job  of 
 giving  us  big  leaf  coverage  and  covering 
 the  neighbor's  side  side  area  back  there 
 and  really  thickening  up  that  bottom 
 monsteras  will  do  a  great  job  of  trying 
 to  find  the  Sun  so  they're  going  to 
 really  reach  out  and  really  give  us  that 
 uh  big  leaf  look  that  big  split  leaf 
 look  and  what's  great  about  those  is  and 
 you  know  I  know  that  you  know  you  guys 
 are  looking  at  that  and  thinking  though 
 that's  going  to  be  a  lot  of  Maintenance 
 but  with  monsteras  and  any  kind  of  filad 
 drian  or  aliccia  or  calcia  the  only  kind 
 of  Maintenance  you  have  is  really 
 trimming  the  plant  when  it  has  a  brown 
 spot  on  it  trimming  the  leaf  itself  or 
 um  trimming  it  off  of  something  that  you 
 don't  want  so  I  I  kind  of  walk  outside 
 with  my  little  shears  as  I'm  walking 
 through  the  garden  and  I'll  clip  every 
 once  in  a  while  what  I  don't  want  so 
 that  monstera  for  instance  it's  going  to 
 throw  leaves  that  way  that  way  and  this 
 way  now  it  might  come  up  and  one  leaf 
 might  cover  the  pretty  part  of  the  the 
 Krum  Lily  all  you  do  is  go  right  down  to 
 the  center  of  that  plant  and  cut  that 
 leaf  off  and  I  know  it's  a  healthy  leaf 
 and  you  probably  shouldn't  have  to  cut 
 it  off  but  I  like  those  I  like  them  to 
 go  exactly  where  they're  supposed  to  go 
 so  I  do  maintain  mine  based  on 
 Aesthetics  you  know  I  want  it  to  I  want 
 it  to  fill  up  a  base  but  I  don't  want  it 
 to  take  over 
 so  we  have  a  big  giant  King  Alexander 
 that  we  put  in  about  5  years  ago  and  it 
 is  doing  superbly  we  have  another  one 
 right  there  on  the  opposite  side  that's 
 doing  so  so 
 well  and  then  we've  got  a  grouping  of  a 
 Palms  now  the  aica  Palms  are  struggling 
 they  had  some  Palm  deficiency  and  I'll 
 show  you  kind  of  guys  what  that  looks 
 like  so  that  way  you  know  to  look  out 
 for  that  you  see  when  that  leaf  goes 
 real  small  the  new  growth  that  comes  in 
 it  means  it  has  a  magnesium  and 
 manganese  deficiency  so  you  want  to  hit 
 that  with  um  there's  a  couple  good  Palm 
 nutritional  spray  products  I'll  put  them 
 on  the  screen  but  they're  fantastic  to 
 um  to  just  spray  or  drench  with  those 
 products  and  it'll  take  care  of  that 
 from  from  happening  um  and  it  keeps  your 
 leaves  nice  and  shiny  and  green  you  kind 
 of  see  how  those  orka  Palms  have  some 
 yellowing  in  there  it'll  do  a  good  job 
 of  combating  that  and  helping  keeping  it 
 green  now  they're  called  Golden  cane 
 Palms  because  in  full  sun  they  will  do 
 that  but  there  is  a  way  to  help  combat 
 that  by  really  giving  it  a  good 
 nutritional  um  treatment  a  good  drench 
 so  I'll  put  that  on  the  screen  it's  also 
 going  to  be  in  my  storefront  so  please 
 check  that  out  if  you  guys  are  going  to 
 buy  it  anyway  then  consider  buying  it 
 off  of  my  storefront  I  get  a  little  bit 
 of  a  commission  from  it  so  that  is  super 
 cool  okay  right  down  below  here  um  this 
 is  makota  oh  my 
 goodness  can  you  think  of  anything  that 
 gives  you  more  of  a  showy  Bloom  they're 
 so  fantastic  fantastic  now  this  was  a 
 25g  bush  that  I  put  in  and  I  really  do 
 you  see  all  the  holes  in  here  and  over 
 there  I  want  that  to  fill  in  that  whole 
 space  and  really  really  come  into  its 
 own  and  it  that  be  what  you  see  when  you 
 first  walk  into  the  garden  I  just  think 
 that  all  summer  long  they  look  gorgeous 
 they  bloom  beautifully  during  the  winter 
 he's  going  to  have  to  cut  those  back  a 
 little  bit  but  you  notice  that  we  put  in 
 the  Excellence  croin  down  at  the  bottom 
 here  and  we  only  have  three  of  them  and 
 their  whole  goal  and  purpose  in  life  is 
 to  become  the  skirt  to  that  plant  so  by 
 the  time  that  that  plant  is  done  growing 
 in  the  winter  those  plants  down  below  or 
 summer  excuse  me  those  plants  down  below 
 will  now  be  3  and  1  half  to  4ot  tall  and 
 they  will  do  a  great  job  being  that 
 bright  focal  point  in  the  garden  until 
 spring  when  these  guys  do  it  all  over 
 again  with  their  beautiful  blooms  and 
 and  gorgeous  color  so  you  know  it's  a 
 twofold  but  I  think  having  two  of  them 
 in  the  garden 
 it's  worth  it  for  the  summer  growth  that 
 you  get  these  guys  will  get  a  good  4 
 foot  this  summer  and  really  just  really 
 fill  in  these  gaps  and  become  that 
 tropical  jungle  that  Jane  and  Scott  want 
 to 
 see  so  to  the 
 back  these  days  I  can't  think  of  doing  a 
 design  without  anti-l  anymore  but  those 
 are  anti-l  quarter  lines  in  the  back  and 
 we've  got  them  clustered  nice  and  tight 
 as  a  backdrop  and  then  we  dappled  in  a 
 couple  of  Red  Sisters  just  for  a  little 
 pop  of  uh 
 color  and  then  to  the  front  nothing 
 screams  tropical  like  a  big  paddled  Leaf 
 this  is  a  giant  Borneo  it  is  absolutely 
 gorgeous  I  love  their  big  giant  leaves 
 this  guy  is  going  to  be  a  focal  point  in 
 the  garden  I  mean  he  already  is  but  oh 
 my  goodness  wait  until  he  gets  5  foot 
 taller  and  really  consumes  that  spot 
 like  he's  supposed  to  um  he  is  his  goal 
 he's  going  to  search  for  the  sun  with 
 those  big  giant  leaves  so  as  he  gets 
 bigger  those  leaves  are  going  to  kind  of 
 come  this  way  kind  of  like  you  see  what 
 these  birds  of  paradise  leaves  are  doing 
 and  we're  going  to  kind  of  rinse  and 
 repeat  that  kind  of  look  that  we  have  on 
 the  other  side  of  the  fence  when  you're 
 entering  with  fronds  with  these  big 
 paddled  leaves  here  so  this  is  going  to 
 come  this  way  and  this  is  going  to  go 
 that  way  and  wow  it's  just  going  to  make 
 a  nice  little  entrance  to  this  backyard 
 space  it's  just  going  to  make  you  feel 
 like  you're  walking  through  a  tropical 
 garden 
 in  I'm  going  to  skip  over  to  the  right 
 side  here  these  right  here  are  songs  of 
 India  now  they're  on  trellises  because  I 
 really  kind  of  want  a  column  look  to  it 
 I've  got  one  on  the  opposite  uh  side  of 
 this  bird  of  paradise  here  and  it's 
 really  they're  really  going  to  kind  of 
 pop  up  I'd  like  them  to  go  about  a  foot 
 or  so  taller  than  the  trellis  itself 
 just  above  the  wall  so  my  clients  can 
 see  that  from  inside  but  they  can  keep 
 such  a  nice  structure  all  you  have  to  do 
 is  keep  winding  their  stems  into  that 
 and  it  becomes  a  big  vibrant  interesting 
 textured  column  so  if  topiaries  are  not 
 your  thing  you  want  a  tropical  topiary 
 there  you  go  they're  perfect  for  that 
 when  they  do  grow  in  they're  thick  and 
 they're  dense  and  they're  a  bright  spot 
 in  a  darker  Garden  I  think  down  below  is 
 some  Burly 
 marks  and  what's  great  about  these  guys 
 is  cuz  look  how  close  these  little  B 
 marks  are  to  the  walkway  now  these  guys 
 are  only  going  to  get  about  2  and  1/2  3T 
 at  most  in  height  and  they  can  be  kept 
 compact  they  just  do  such  a  nice  job  of 
 becoming  a  controlled  little  group  so 
 just  um  what  three  of  them  will  do  in  a 
 garden  is  is  is  just  amazing  how  they'll 
 keep  everything  tidy  to  the  to  the  um  to 
 the 
 back  now  over  here  we've  got  bird's  nest 
 Ferns  and  these  bird's  nest  ferns  are 
 just  babies  but  they  are  really  going  to 
 be  a  nice  little  grouping  around  what  I 
 cons  I  consider  the  more  the  messy  part 
 of  the  birds  of  paradise  now  these  guys 
 will  grow  right  up  the  tree  given  the 
 opportunity  which  I  think  is  fantastic 
 was  actually  telling  Scott  and  Jane  that 
 I  would  um  incorporate  some  on  the 
 actual  tree  trunks  themselves  and  let 
 and  help  them  start  on  their  way  because 
 I  think  they're  so  cool  when  you're 
 walking  by  and  you  just  get  that  really 
 interesting  front  interesting  Leaf  kind 
 of  just  staring  at  you  as  you're  going 
 up  as  you're  walking  down  the  path  so 
 I'd  love  to  see  some  of  those  and  maybe 
 even  some  vermil  ads  popped  into  that 
 area  down  in  the  middle  in  that  bare 
 spot  we've  got  some 
 farfugium  giant  leopards 
 ear  and  then  again  with  the  bird's  nest 
 ferns  you  kind  of  see  how  they're  just 
 barely  just  dappled  right  into  to  that 
 grouping  to  get  them 
 started  we've  got  a  little  pop  of  color 
 on  this  corner  but  very  controlled  again 
 because  it's  so  close  to  the  walkway  and 
 that's  the  gold  dust  croin  and  then  of 
 course  another  column  song  of 
 India  now  I'm  going  to  go  back  to  this 
 left  side  because  I  don't  want  you  guys 
 to  miss  a  thing  here  so  this  is  another 
 pagot  on  this  corner  and  then  at  the 
 bottom  we've  got  um  the  uh  Roo  Kong  goes 
 the  foxtail 
 Ferns  and  of  course  the  Excellence 
 croin  now  I  don't  want  to  pass  up  this 
 cool 
 variegated  um 
 aliccia  they're  really  really  neat  they 
 do  get  a  big  leaf  themselves  and  I  think 
 I've  mentioned  this  already  but  my 
 client  wants  a  jungle  and  that's  exactly 
 what  they're  going  to  do  those  big 
 leaves  are  going  to  compete  with  those 
 big  leaves  and  because  they're  different 
 colors  and  different  sizes  I  think 
 they're  going  to  mesh  together  so  well 
 and  because  the  sizes  are  naturally 
 going  to  grow  at  different  heights 
 you're  really  going  to  um  it's  going  to 
 really  help  with  the  maintenance  because 
 you're  not  necessarily  taking  care  of 
 that  yourself  you  know  you're  allowing 
 this  tree  to  get  much  taller  than  that 
 so  that  one's  going  to  encroach  and  go 
 that  way  and  this  one's  going  to  go 
 vertical  this  way  and  then  well  up  over 
 into  this  area  so  you  get  a  nice  a  nice 
 blast  of  leaf  on  Leaf  down  below  are  the 
 let  me  see  if  I  can  get  a  better  angle 
 for  you  guys 
 [Applause] 
 down  below  are  the  Maria 
 agonas  and  they  are  not  showstoppers  yet 
 but  oh  my  goodness  6  months  you  guys 
 they  will  be  absolutely  gorgeous  in  6 
 months  this  little  cluster  grouping  I 
 told  my  clients  they'll  probably  be  one 
 of  your  favorite  plants  right  now 
 they're  not  super  showy  but  I  love  the 
 way  those  guys  look  when  they're  a  a 
 solid  little  Groot  planting  their 
 texture  is  different  than  the  other 
 Tropicals  and  that  that  that  soft 
 variegation  it  just  I  don't  know  it  just 
 transports  you  into  just  a  nice  clean 
 tropical  look  very  very  Serene  very 
 peaceful  but  a  nice  pop  of 
 color  then  down  below  we  have  the  purple 
 glories  vermil  ads  I'll  have  to  put 
 their  more  common  name  on  the  screen  um 
 but  that's  just  what  we've  always  called 
 them  through  the 
 years  and  this  is  not  a  big  space  um  you 
 know  I  cannot  recall  off  hand  what  the 
 measurement  is  but  I'm  thinking  that 
 from  wall  to  wall  we're  probably  looking 
 at  no  more  than  17  or  18  ft  wide  it's 
 really  and  then  we've  got  a  nice  walkway 
 in  between  there  so  it's  not  a  lot  of 
 room  but  I  really  do  feel  like  we  got  a 
 blast  of  cool  colors  and  nice  impact  all 
 the  way  all  the  way 
 through  so  as  we  make  our  way  around  the 
 corner  we  have  a 
 antio  coupling 
 here  and  then  Queen  Emma  with  a  skirting 
 of  burle 
 marks  and  then  of  course  the  Eureka 
 makes  a  perfect 
 backdrop  so  right  now  so  right  here  we 
 have  look  at  the  cranes  coming  in  with 
 their  with  their  young  baby  that's  so 
 cool 
 okay  so  right  here  we  have  a  nice  Corner 
 feature  now  this  is  a  spot  that  they  see 
 right  from  their  pool  area  so  I  wanted 
 it  to  have  some  some  pop  and  it  really 
 does  these  three  um  fals  aavees  um  are 
 just  a  nice  nice  imp  bit  of  impact  in 
 the  garden  I  really  do  think  that  they 
 have  a  great  look  to  them  and  um  and 
 then  we've  got  the  Don  Juan  burm  milads 
 down  below  these  are  sun  bmad  and  then 
 the  sexy  pink  to  the  front 
 here  these  are  in  the  Neo  families  down 
 below  and  they  just  uh  they  just  do  a 
 lovely  job  this  is  a  collection  of  um 
 older  vermilia  that  we  put  in  about  5 
 years  ago  and  they're  doing  well  so 
 we've  kept  them  and  they  remain  in  the 
 garden  and  then  another  older  vermilia 
 um  that  is  a  silver 
 odor  and  the  grasses  we've  just  cut  them 
 back  but  they're  going  to  make  a  nice 
 kind  of  softer  bit  of  pop  in  the  as  a 
 backdrop  there  and  then  we've  got  just 
 behind  each  of  the 
 two  big  fals  seavees  we  have  got  Helen 
 Johnson  Bugan 
 Vila  now  the  Helen  Johnson  buan  Vila  are 
 the  dwarf  variety  of  the  Bugan 
 Vila  so  this  area  as  you  can  see  the 
 goal  of  this  space  is  where  there's  a 
 home  we  did  blockage  where  it  opens  up 
 to  the  water  view  we  did  more  of 
 impactful  material  that  stays  kind  of  at 
 a  lower  size  so  even  though  these  FAL 
 aavees  are  quite  large  they're  nothing 
 they're  not  going  to  block  anything 
 they're  really  just  kind  of  giving  you 
 your  eye  a  place  to  rest  with  something 
 interesting  almost  like  a  sculpture  wood 
 in  the  garden  but  they're  really  not  um 
 they're  not  offering  any  blockage  from 
 the  water  line  and  I  just  think  that 
 that's  the  that's  a  really  nice  mix  if 
 you're  wanting  some  impact  but  you  don't 
 want  coverage  that  does  a  good  job  of 
 that  and  then  as  we  get  further  over 
 you'll  notice  that  we  continued  with  the 
 blocking  plants  to  kind  of  give  them 
 that  tropical 
 feel  down  below  we've  dappled  in  a 
 little  bit  of  gold  Mounds 
 here  and  then  some  of  the  grasses  that 
 were  in 
 place  some  more  songs  of  India  these  are 
 going  to  be  in  the  bush  type  grouping 
 these  are  planted  as  a  bush  planting  and 
 they're  going  to  really  get  a  nice  thick 
 dense  kind  of  cool  bushy  look  to  them 
 and  they're  going  to  be  around  the  3  to 
 4T  range  and  that's  the  perfect  way  to 
 keep  them  and  you  guys  you  can  keep  them 
 as  Hedges  I've  seen  people  let  them  get 
 really  big  and  tall  and  and  thick  but 
 you  honestly  you  can  really  keep  them  at 
 a  nice  bushy  3ot  cluster  and  they  do 
 super  super  well  with  that  we  did  some 
 foxtail  ferns  over  on  the  left  side 
 there  and  a  beautiful  beautiful  Spindle 
 Palm  triple  I  know  you  guys  have  seen  my 
 Spindle  Palm  in  my  garden  I  absolutely 
 love  it  so  when  Scott  said  yeah  sure  to 
 a  Spindle  Palm  I'm  like  well  we're  going 
 to  get  a  triple  in  here  and  it's  going 
 to  be  the  focal  point  of  the  back  area 
 and  it  sure  is  it's  just 
 beautiful  and  I'll  show  you  guys  from 
 another  angle  what  that  looks  like 
 so  this  is  their  view  line  here  and  I'll 
 walk  inside  the  pool  area  so  you  guys 
 can  see  that 
 from  that  angle 
 [Laughter] 
 [Music] 
 [Laughter] 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 a 
 [Music] 
 [Laughter] 
 a 
 [Music] 
 so  there  you  have  it  you  guys  thank  you 
 for  walking  uh  with  me  and  on  a  kind  of 
 impromptu  little  garden  tour  I  hope  you 
 enjoyed  it  I'm  sure  there's  a  couple 
 things  that  I  missed  or  questions  that 
 you  might  have  please  leave  them  in  the 
 comments  down  below  and  I  would  be  happy 
 to  get  to  you  um  there  um  if  any  of  you 
 guys  are  looking  for  more  than  the 
 inspiration  that  you  got  here  and  you 
 are  along  the  treasure  in  Space  Coast 
 Area  then  please  reach  out  to  us  we'd  be 
 so  happy  to  meet  with  you  and  kind  of 
 see  what  we  can  do  in  your  garden  so  but 
 for  now  I  will  see  you  guys  in  the  very 
 next  Garden  Tour  I  look  forward  to  it 
 and  see  you  then  bye-bye

---

 well  hey  you  guys  welcome  back  today  we 
 are  in  my  front  yard  here  in  Viro  Beach 
 Florida  Zone  10A  and  we're  going  to  do 
 an  updated  Garden  Tour  I'm  just  going  to 
 kind  of  walk  you  around  the  front  yard 
 and  share  with  you  of  course  plant  and 
 tree  names  and  just  kind  of  just  kind  of 
 what  I  call  home  so  I  am  um  I'm  thrilled 
 to  have  you  guys  here  and  uh  I  hope  you 
 really  get  a  lot  of  inspiration  from  the 
 front  yard  Garden  this  is  space  that  is 
 not  very  big  at  all  but  is  definitely  um 
 definitely  a  spot  that  I  utilize  every 
 single  day  we  really  really  enjoy  um 
 being  in  the  front  yard  entertaining  in 
 the  front  yard  and  relaxing  of  course  in 
 the  front  yard  um  part  of  our  big  part 
 of  our  relaxing  is  the  koi  pond  that  we 
 have  here  in  the 
 front  and  uh  as  you  walk  through  here 
 you  can  see  that  pretty  much  takes  up 
 most  of  our  front  yard  space  and  we 
 absolutely  love  it 
 we  have  Marissa  and  Olive 
 here  you  guys  I  have  to  introduce  you  to 
 Marissa  Marissa  is  my  future 
 daughter-in-law  and  you  guys  have 
 probably  saw  Olive  in  one  of  the  last 
 videos  but  she  is  oh  she's  camera 
 shy  she's  getting  so 
 big  so  but  um  so  we're  just  kind  of 
 hanging  out  in  the  H  around  the  front 
 around  the  yard  today  we're  here  for  the 
 weekend  the  whole  family  and  so  I 
 thought  I  would  do  a  quick  video  and 
 share  with  you  guys  and  yes  that's  what 
 Olive  does  so  she  she  loves  it  and 
 fishes  love 
 her  so  in  a  moment  you  guys  are  going  to 
 hear  a  splash  and  she  will  be  in  the 
 pond  swimming  she  does  her  laps  she's 
 probably  better  at  that  than  I  am  but  uh 
 she's  she's  um  just  as  in  love  with  this 
 Pond  as  I  am  so  let's  go  ahead  and  start 
 at  the  front 
 so  this  is  my  driveway  area  so  it's  your 
 typical  wide  driveway  for  um  for  for  a 
 typical  front  Suburban  front  yard  um 
 what  what  is  a  bit  different  I  would  say 
 is  that  we  really  did  close  off  the 
 whole  front  yard  section  and  not  because 
 I  don't  want  to  see  my  neighbors  you 
 guys  but  mainly  because  um  you  know  I  I 
 love  that  courtyard  feel  and  if  you  guys 
 have  watched  my  videos  you  know  that  I 
 like  to  make  intimate  spaces  I  like  to 
 be  surrounded  by  the  gardens  I  like  to 
 be  surrounded  by  water  and  I  think  the 
 combination  of  having  the  gates  here  and 
 having  um  the  podocarpus  uh  wall  there 
 that  they're  still  pretty  young  they're 
 going  to  get  about  I'm  going  to  let  them 
 get  about  three  foot  taller  just  above 
 the  columns  and  I  think  they're  going  to 
 be  just  a  nice  nice  soft  barrier  between 
 the  driveway  space  and  the  main  space 
 that  everybody  hangs  out  at  so  what  um 
 what  we  have  here  is  a  Green  kusia  Hedge 
 and  my  community  itself  doesn't  allow 
 for  fences  along  the  front  front  yard  um 
 so  what  we  did  is  we  did  a  soft  nice 
 green  fence  and  it  makes  a  fantastic 
 green  wall  I  absolutely  love  it  we  did 
 curve  it  so  it's  not  pretty  solid  so  it 
 kind  of  angles  at  the  corner  drops  down 
 in  the  middle  and  allows  for  this  nice 
 little  this  little  pop  out  within  this 
 hedge  making  making  a  good  backing  here 
 I  did  both  of  my  favorite  kinds  of 
 edgings  here  we've  got  the  aluminum 
 alloy  edging  that's  kind  of  a  nice 
 defined  little  line  and  then  um  we  have 
 the  Bea  edging  which  is  absolutely  my 
 favorite  edging  this  is  in  the  charcoal 
 pattern  it's  a  two-stage  edging  I'll  put 
 the  link  of  my  buta  edging  down  below  um 
 if  you  guys  are  interested  please  check 
 out  the  link  um  I  get  a  little 
 commission  from  it  so  it's  it's  always 
 I'm  always  grateful  for  for  anyone  who 
 picks  up  the  beaa  edging  for  me  but  it's 
 yes  but  it's  absolutely  a  fantastic 
 product  you  will  not  be  sorry  um  so 
 right  in  the  middle  here  I've  got  the 
 triple  Christmas  palm  and  it  is  just 
 almost  full  grown  it's  super  happy  Happ 
 here  and  I  just  I  absolutely  love  the 
 way  it  looks  as  it  gets  a  little  bit 
 taller  I'm  probably  going  to  stick  some 
 verm  milads  growing  up  it  just  so  I  have 
 a  little  bit  more  interest  in  this 
 little  little  spot  because  we  are 
 tipping  out  at  where  the  county  allows 
 us  to  to  um  pop  out  these  front  beds 
 before  we  get  into  the  ditch  area  so 
 we're  kind  of  U  this  is  as  far  as  we  can 
 go  we  have  got  some  beautiful  pin  wheel 
 jasms  on  the  corners  I  absolutely  love 
 what  they're  doing  they're  so  soft  so 
 delicate  and  they  bloom  all  spring  all 
 summer  just  such  such  a  nice  little  fun 
 little  clustering  of  those  and  then  of 
 course  you  guys  know  how  I  feel  about 
 Ruby  Reds  they're  just  such  a  great 
 blanket  plant  you  can  keep  them  like  a 
 little  miniature  hedge  the  ground  cover 
 is  just  I  don't  know  it's  just  so 
 stunning  I  just  love  the  look  and  then 
 the  fox  tail  Agave  these  are  Agave  that 
 do  not  have  any  Pricks  or  any  spines  or 
 any  Thorns  they're  just  a  nice  soft 
 succulent  looking  agave  and  I  just  think 
 that  they're  cool  they  will  cluster  on 
 their  own  but  they  do  take  quite  a  bit 
 of  time  to  to  do  that  so  you  got  to 
 really  really  like  them  and  then  of 
 course  we  seated  them  with  a  boulder  in 
 the  middle  over  here  we  have  a  double 
 bottle  Palm  this  guy  was  moved  recently 
 well  not 
 recently  yes  we  do  yeah  we  did  have  a 
 this  is  a  palm  of  plan  of  the  week  and 
 plan  of  the  week  video  um  in  a  previous 
 uh  previous  tour  but  um  this  bottle  Palm 
 is  struggling  a  little  bit  because  it 
 was  moved  when  we  did  the  koi  pond  so 
 it's  really  starting  to  kind  of 
 reestablish  and  and  then  we've  got  some 
 fox  tail  Agave  kind  of  clustered  around 
 some  Boulders  um  I  don't  know  what  it  is 
 about  Boulders  and  foxtail  agave  and 
 foxtail  ferns  those  are  my  go-to  things 
 for  around  the  boulders  to  kind  of 
 soften  that  look  and  then  these 
 Brazilian  Red  cloaks  just  take  up  this 
 whole  corner  I  wish  they  were  in  more 
 Bloom  for  you  guys  but  they're  look  like 
 they're  just  running  out  of  their 
 blooming  cycle  but  they're  just  such 
 stunners  they  fill  in  this  Gap  um  even 
 my  neighbors  are  starting  to  pop  them  in 
 their  their  Garden  so  I'm  seeing  that 
 everybody  is  really  really  liking  them 
 and  then  the  kusia  hedge  goes  straight 
 down  our  property  line  and  gives  us 
 great 
 coverage  yeah  nice  and  low 
 huh  he's  part  of  the  Blue  Angels 
 there  so  and  then  as  you  can  see  we've 
 continued  with  um  some  buffering  all  the 
 way  down  to  my  property  line  that's  kind 
 of  my  thing 
 so  but  um  so  now  that  you  guys  have  kind 
 of  seen  the  face  of  it  from  the  road 
 you'll  kind  of  now  we'll  get  a  better 
 look  at  the  inside 
 my  goal  for  this  space  price  that's  a 
 great  question  um  it's  actually  I  think 
 it's  been  achieved  it  is  um  so  when 
 you're  looking  out  this  way  it's  an 
 attractive  front  it's  not  like  a  wall  or 
 fence  uh  like  you  know  closing  me  off  in 
 any  kind  of  way  I  wanted  it  to  be 
 attractive  from  the  outside  but  I  wanted 
 it  to  be  private  on  the  inside  I  um  I 
 give  a  lot  of  time  and  attention  to  my 
 to  my  work  and  I  work  a  lot  of  hours  so 
 when  I'm  home  you  know  I  I  want  to  be  I 
 want  to  have  that  glass  of  wine  in  the 
 evening  I  know  you  guys  know  that  I  um 
 you  know  I  want  to  have  my  coffee  in  the 
 morning  and  I  kind  of  want  to  be  in  my 
 pajamas  as  long  as  absolutely  possible 
 and  so  this  allows  me  to  do  that  it 
 allows  me  to  feel  like  I  can  really  just 
 kind  of  kind  of  huddle  up  in  here  regain 
 some  good  energy  and  um  you  know  kind  of 
 get  get  the  inspiration  that  I  need  for 
 the  rest  of  the  week  you  know  when  I'm 
 when  I'm  here  it  it  does  that  for  me  so 
 um  so  that's  exactly  what  I  wanted  so 
 we'll  we'll  kind  of  walk  through  this 
 area  and  I'll  share  with  you  what  we 
 did  so  this  is  what  that  clusia  hedge 
 looks  like  on  the  inside  of  the  property 
 what  I  love  about  that  hedge  is  it's  a 
 wall  but  it  doesn't  feel  like  I'm  closed 
 in  in  any  way  we  kept  it  very  simple 
 which  I  know  some  of  you  guys  are 
 probably  pretty  surprised  cuz  my 
 backyard  garden  is  W  you  know  with 
 layers  and  colors  this  one  is  much  more 
 paired  back  um  part  of  the  reason  is  is 
 we  do  have  a  septic  tank  that  runs  right 
 along  this  front  section  here  and  so  I 
 was  very  careful  about  what  I  put  here 
 uh  rootwise  so  I  ended  up  wanting  to  put 
 in  some  color  wanted  something  that  was 
 going  to  have  some  height  um  and  then 
 these  Bugan  Vilas  just  fit  the  bill  I 
 love  the  Potted  buan  Vilas  along  the 
 front  because  I  not  only  see  these  guys 
 um  from  when  I  walk  in  from  the  inside 
 but  as  soon  as  I  drive  along  the  front 
 of  the  um  the  front  of  my  house  I  see 
 these  tips  of  color  all  over  all  the  way 
 through  this  hedge  and  it's  just  kind  of 
 like  what's  going  on  back  there  you  know 
 it  makes  you  want  to  see  what's 
 happening  and  I  I  wish  they  were  in  full 
 bloom  for  you  guys  they're  getting  ready 
 to  pop  again  but  they  just  went  through 
 a  real  Hefty  blooming  cycle  and  um 
 they're  they're  going  to  you  know 
 they're  going  to  pop  back  here  soon 
 they're  just  not  going  to  fully  show  up 
 today  I  put  them  in  pots  because  my 
 garden  is  set  up  in  such  a  way  where  um 
 it's  tropical  so  it  definitely  needs 
 water  and  so  buan  Villas  obviously  as 
 you  guys  know  they  do  not  love  water  so 
 they  definitely  a  plant  that  you  want  to 
 either  put  in  a  pot  or  keep  it  in  a  well 
 drained  um  area  and  um  pots  to  me  are  a 
 go-to  when  you're  working  in  the  garden 
 and  you  need  to  really  keep  good  control 
 over  this  way  I  know  they're  not  going 
 to  take  over  they're  not  going  to  grow 
 into  my  kusia  they're  not  going  to  be 
 such  an  aggressive  grower  that  I'm  going 
 to  be  fighting  it  all  the  time  so  um  and 
 they're  also  heavy  feeders  so  I  can 
 control  how  much  food  they  get  by  their 
 um  by  the  fertilizer  that  I  put  in  just 
 around  the  pot  base  so  it  it  really  just 
 kind  of  really  helps  me  all  in  all  and  I 
 was  fortunate  enough  to  get  these  pots 
 from  a  past  client  who  we  did  a 
 beautiful  outdoor  Garden  Tour  they  live 
 on  the  water  and  they  just  didn't  need 
 the  pots  anymore  and  so  I  was  so 
 grateful  to  be  able  to  reuse  them  in  my 
 own  garden  so  uh  but  yeah  so  I  ended  up 
 putting  in  nice  little  trees  um  I  did 
 want  to  mention  on  the  buganvilla  you 
 want  to  make  sure  that  you  have  a  little 
 bit  of  um  protection  for  them  as  far  as 
 um  as  far  as  um  some  security  because 
 they  can  break  fairly  easy  so  you  want 
 to  put  some  rebar  in  some  cases  they 
 have  the  copper  that  runs  through  them 
 and  I  have  another  one  over  there  but 
 it's  pretty  well  covered  that  has  the 
 copper  running  through  them  this  one  I 
 bought  because  I  absolutely  love  the 
 color  combination  but  it  didn't  have  the 
 copper  which  was  a  big  negative  for  me 
 so  I  would  suggest  anybody  who  is 
 looking  for  banva  trees  to  find  the  ones 
 with  the  copper  on  them  don't  just  be 
 seduced  by  the  pretty  colors  because  you 
 know  it  I'm  having  trouble  with  it 
 staying  straight  up  so  I'm  going  to  have 
 to  add  some  additional  um  plants  and 
 then  you  want  to  keep  these  kind  of 
 bottoms  sorry  Bryce  you're  probably 
 going  to  be  like  what  are  you  doing  Mom 
 you  want  to  keep  these  bottoms  kind  of 
 trimmed  off  just  like  this  you  don't 
 want  to  let  that  grow  because  that  way 
 all  that  energy  goes  towards  the  plant 
 itself  so  um  and  I  keep  my 
 Falco  Falco  you  guys  check  them  out  in 
 my  storefront  these  are  fantastic  they 
 are  tough  they  can  can  go  through  little 
 thin  clippings  like  this  like  butter  as 
 well  as  my  thicker  little  Palm  um  fronds 
 I  can  clip  so  I  always  keep  these  in  my 
 in  my  little  pouch  this  pouch  goes  right 
 by  my  front  door  there's  a  little 
 cabinet  that  I  keep  and  I  just  pull  them 
 out  I've  seen  people  put  that  put 
 mailboxes  through  their  Gardens  and  keep 
 their  little  um  trimmers  you  know  in 
 those  mailboxes  and  I  just  think  that  so 
 cool  so  possibly  I  might  do  something 
 like  that  with  like  bird  houses  or 
 something  um  because  I  can't  can't  get 
 birds  to  live  in  my  bird  houses  so  I 
 might  as  well  put  my  trimmers  in  there 
 CU  you  never  know  as  you're  walking 
 through  that's  exactly  what  happens  as  a 
 gardener  you  just  start  clipping  and 
 nipping  and  you  know  before  you  know  it 
 you  spent  2  hours  out  in  the  garden  and 
 it  was  relaxing  it  was  you  felt  like  you 
 did  something  that  day  so  um  so  I  never 
 mind  pulling  out  my  felos  to  do  that  but 
 um  so  right  here  we  have  a  Anderson 
 crepe  hibiscus  now  this  is  the  white 
 variety  the  hummingbirds  love  this  tree 
 it's  like  they  just  kind  of  they  find  it 
 and  you  can  see  just  how  beautiful  these 
 blooms  are  and  just  these  I  just  I  just 
 think  that  they're  so  delicate  K  it 
 looks  like  a  rain  tree  to  me  I  just  love 
 how  soft  and  delicate  these  white  blooms 
 are  now  the  Anderson  crepe  white  is 
 definitely  rarer  than  the  pink  um  and 
 the  the  main  reason  is  is  these  take 
 much  longer  to  grow  much  much  longer 
 Unfortunately  um  so  that  one  took  a  good 
 two  years  for  it  to  get  established  so  I 
 had  to  really  be  a  patient  gardener  on 
 that  um  and  then  now  it's  obviously  very 
 very  happy  but  this  is  a  variegated 
 lemon  tree  it  has  um  really  great  juice 
 to  the  lemons  um  a  little  bit  tardy  um 
 but  perfect  for  like  pink  lemonade  cuz 
 they  have  you  know  a  little  bit  of  that 
 Ting  in  Coloring  there  so  very  very  cool 
 um  tree  to  work 
 with  this  right  here  is  a  full  grown  um 
 spindle  pom  and  he  is  just  chunky  and 
 fat  and  what  a  great  anchor  he  makes  on 
 the  corner  of  my  front  yard  Garden  I 
 just  love  the  way  he  looks  I  love  I  love 
 this  these  rings  on  this  trunk  I  just 
 think  it's  fabulous  so  he's  uh  he's  full 
 grown  and  that's  about  as  big  as  he's 
 going  to  get  um  this  little  area  right 
 here  is  a  very  clean  I  wanted  it  to  be 
 interesting  you  know  we're  off  the  edge 
 of  the  um  septic  tank  that's  over  there 
 and  so  I  just  kind  of  wanted  a  a  nice 
 little  tight  grouping  of  plants  um  we're 
 going  to  start  over  here  with  this  just 
 cool  statue  I  mean  I  just  I  think  he's  I 
 think  he's  so  Charming  I'm  waiting  for 
 the  perfect  plant  to  to  kind  of  put  a 
 backing  behind  them  and  then  I'm  going 
 to  cut  out  the  plant  around  it  I'm 
 thinking  about  Lion's  Tail  um  because  I 
 love  the  way  how  they  get  big  and  beefy 
 and  I'll  show  you  that  in  the  maybe  I'll 
 get  Bryce  a  slide  in  what  that  looks 
 like  but  it's  a  great  orange  blooming  um 
 plant  and  it's  just  so  it's  it's  just  so 
 beefy  and  big  and  very  very  upright  so  I 
 don't  have  to  worry  about  it  getting 
 over  into  this  area  but  I  love  the  idea 
 of  them  being  engulfed  in  a  plant 
 grouping  mainly  because  I  got  the  idea 
 for  these  soldiers  um  when  I  did  a 
 project  um  down  south  and  they  had  one 
 that  they  shipped  in  from  China  he  was 
 amazing  a  couple  foot  taller  and  he  was 
 standing  straight  up  and  um  they  were 
 just  like  you  know  we  had  him  shipped 
 and  we  we  went  there  to  visit  and  saw 
 them  and  got  the  whole  story  and  really 
 got  just  really  really  got  engrossed  by 
 it  and  then  they  had  it  shipped  um  to 
 their  to  their  property  in  Palm  City  and 
 um  they  had  no  idea  what  to  do  with  it 
 you  know  put  it  in  the  front  yard  put  it 
 there  put  it  just  no  no  no  matter  where 
 they  put  it  we  couldn't  figure  out  what 
 to  do  with  it  so  we  kind  of  created  a  an 
 agan  inspired  landscape  just  around  that 
 statue  so  we  put  some  bgan  Vila  trees 
 that  had  some  nice  canopy  coverage  and 
 we  ended  up  incorporating  them  in  kind 
 of  around  almost  like  a  grotto  style 
 around  them  and  then  we  did  a  really 
 kind  of  a  decorative  bmad  planting 
 underneath  of  them  and  it  was  mixed  with 
 some  stones  and  some  rocks  and  from  that 
 moment  on  and  that  was  years  ago  from 
 that  moment  on  I  just  said  I  want  one 
 don't  know  where  I'm  going  to  put  one 
 but  I  want  one  and  I  saw  one  in  Palm 
 City  of  all  places  at  a  garden  center 
 and  so  it's  not  the  same  great  story 
 from  China  being  shipped  but  I  still 
 like  him  and  uh  I'm  going  to  have  to  get 
 Bryce  to  name  him  because  he  names  all 
 of  my  statues  but  uh  but  we'll  have  to 
 um  I  even  though  he  wasn't  sh  from  China 
 I  still  kind  of  like  him  so  um  in  this 
 area  um  again  we've  got  king  seos  and 
 you  guys  may  have  seen  the  king  Sego 
 plant  of  the  week  highlight  um  I  love 
 their  look  in  the  in  the  garden  they're 
 such  sculptures  and  they  just  really 
 especially  clustered  like  they  are  you 
 know  I  like  them  when  they're  connected 
 planning  like  they  are  now  they  do  take 
 a  little  Extra  Care  I  had  to  put 
 Dominion  on  them  several  times  a  year  um 
 but  you  know  since  I  don't  have  to  trim 
 them  hardly  I  mean  I  trim  them  maybe 
 once  a  year  then  um  I  I  feel  like  the 
 the  drench  is  well  worth  it  it's  a  half 
 ounce  in  a  gallon  of  water  and  you 
 drench  the  whole  plant  with  that  one 
 gallon  and  you  just  hit  them  all  like 
 that  and  you  do  it  a  few  times  a  year 
 that  prevents  the  scale  from  from 
 hitting  them  now  they  are  poisonous  to 
 dogs  so  you  want  to  keep  your  pets  like 
 I  keep  olive  way  out  of  this  bed  and 
 that's  also  another  reason  why  you  know 
 I  want  and  some  separation  this  is  a 
 very  clean  very  easy  area  to  get  to  to 
 maintain  and  um  I  I  I  didn't  kind  of 
 like  just  pop  them  in  in  every  little 
 area  so  I  have  one  designated  area  and  I 
 watch  her  when  it's  in  this  area  because 
 I  can't  part  with  my  king  seos  but  I 
 love  my  puppies  so  um  I've  spotted  in 
 some  Tennessee  Boulders  in  between  this 
 mamama  Jama  was  um  no  joke  getting  in 
 here  it  was  really  cool  when  I  told  my 
 husband  I  wanted  it  in  here  he's  like 
 what  but  I  just  think  wow  just  what  yes 
 I  just  loved  it  I  thought  it  was 
 beautiful  and  you  know  anytime  you  can 
 bring  in  different  elements  into  the 
 garden  like  statues  and  boulders  and  um 
 different  types  of  rocks  and  stones  that 
 really  kind  of  it  just  brings  it  all 
 together  it  really  just  makes  the  garden 
 so  um  and  it  doesn't  have  to  be  anything 
 expensive  I  was  telling  Bryce  he  asked 
 me  the  other  day  where  I  got  this  and 
 I'm  like  this  Facebook  Marketplace  you 
 know  I  can  pick  up  a  lot  of  odds  and  end 
 pots  and  and  columns  and  um  you  know 
 little  um  platforms  and  all  that  for  my 
 outdoor  stuff  from  Facebook  Marketplace 
 because  you  gosh  you  can't  beat 
 it  now  this  I  know  you  guys  have  seen 
 these  when  I  planted  them  new  in  some  of 
 my  tours  but  this  is  my  Blaze  copper 
 leaf  this  is  the  height  that  I  love  to 
 keep  them  they're  getting  ready  to  be 
 trimmed  but  I  wanted  this  to  um  be  full 
 grown  kind  of  my  my  general  overall  um 
 height  that  I  like  to  keep  them  um  for 
 this  video  so  you  guys  can  see  what  that 
 looks  like  so  Blaze  copper  leaf  they  can 
 be  kept  3ft  they  can  kept  4ot  these  are 
 about  4  and  1/2t  so  they're  about  ready 
 to  go  down  and  when  I  do  trim  them  I 
 mushroom  them  out  so  I  really  do  trim 
 them  tight  from  the  bottom  here  and  then 
 cut  across  the  top  here  so  that  way  it's 
 nice  and  rounded  all  the  way  around  and 
 because  I  only  trim  them  about  every  90 
 days  I  do  it  um  I  do  a  hard  cut  back  so 
 two  foot  of  this  will  go  and  then  we'll 
 start  again  and  then  they'll  flush  back 
 out  um  right  behind  these  are  a  lime 
 green  coloring  of  the  curly  white  Javas 
 these  are  Java  white  copper  leaf  Believe 
 It  or  Not  these  are  the  dwarf  variety 
 and  that  they're  dwarf  because  they  can 
 be  kept  smaller  if  you  want  them  to  be 
 but  I  love  this  look  um  just  the  way 
 they  are  and  they  pair  so  nicely  with 
 the  um  Blaze  copper  leaf  and  they're  in 
 the  same  family  they  like  more  moisture 
 and  this  is  another  reason  why  I  um  I 
 pot  certain  things  that  don't  go  with 
 the  rest  of  my  landscape  like  those 
 banvil  is  um  I  pot  them  because  these 
 blades  and  these  copper  leaves  that 
 you're  looking  at  are  super  happy  with 
 the  amount  of  watering  that  they're 
 getting  which  is  about  three  days  a  week 
 to  four  days  a  week  watering  during  the 
 summer  months  so  if  I  did  that  with  the 
 Bugan  Vila  I'd  have  no  blooms  on  my  buan 
 Vila  so  in  order  to  do  that  you  really 
 have  to  really  play  with  um  you  know 
 play  with  you  know  where  you're  going  to 
 place  these  plants  and  then  protect  them 
 from  what  they  don't  want  so  that  way 
 they're  beautiful  for 
 you  so  I  would  say  my  favorite  tree  in 
 this  front  yard  Garden  is  this  this 
 guy  I  I  love  him  at  my  entrance  way  I 
 love  him  to  greet  me  as  I  walk  in  I  just 
 think  he  is  so  cool  I  don't  know  of  a 
 tree  that  gives  you  as  much  understory 
 pop  as  um  what  this  guy  does  he's  a 
 fantastic  lower  canopy  tree  underneath 
 this  big  giant  coconut  palm  that's  above 
 them  that  coconut  palm  offers  this  tree 
 the  perfect  amount  of  coverage  so  so 
 that  way  it's  not  getting  blasted  by 
 this  afternoon  sun  it's  really  kind  of 
 giv  it  that  shade  that  it  needs  uh 
 filtered  light  really  not  shade  but  um 
 and  making  this  nice  and  dark  green  and 
 happy  and  that  tree  that  you  saw  earlier 
 when  we  were  walking  around  the  front 
 that  that  bottle  Palm  now  that  one  you 
 can  see  it's  getting  a  little  bit  um  ped 
 out  because  it  is  in  the  direct  sunlight 
 so  we  are  working  on  that  that  tree  is 
 that  now  getting  extra  water  to  kind  of 
 combat  that  um  that  heat  so  um  this  tree 
 is  in  the  perfect  condition  so  if 
 there's  a  way  that  you  can  take  your 
 bottle  Palms  single  doubles  triples 
 whatever  you  got  and  you  can  put  them  in 
 a  um  in  a  filtered  light  environment 
 with  another  tree  over  top  of  them 
 definitely  do  so  because  it  it  it's  just 
 a  much  healthier  happier  tree  so  it's 
 well  worth  it  these  guys  here  are 
 quarter  lines  they  probably  don't  have 
 to  come  to  be  introduced  to  you  guys 
 especially  if  you  watch  my  video  cuz  you 
 know  that  I  love  them  these  are  anti-l 
 quarter  lines  um  they  are  just  a  cluster 
 that  I  add  to  and  add  to  as  as  I  do  my 
 trimmings  so  um  I  have  a  quarterline 
 video  I'll  get  Bryce  to  link  it  um  down 
 below  but  it's  it's  how  to  maintain  a 
 quarter  line  so  all  you  do  really  is 
 trim  the  tallest  one  like  this  guy  for 
 instance  he  is  kind  of  getting  bigger 
 here  and  um  if  I  had  an  extra  pair  of 
 hands  I  would  probably  do  it  for  you  but 
 okay  so  all  I  would 
 do  and  take  him  and  then  you  would  just 
 want  to  trim  him 
 here  right  off  see  look  at  how  big  this 
 stump  is  for  this  to  trim  so  easily  and 
 then  put  him  right  in  the  ground  down 
 below  now  I  have  more  coverage  at  the 
 bottom  and  it  really  does  give  you  that 
 layered  effect  and  I'll  add  I'll  add  him 
 in  like  it'll  absolutely  root  and 
 propagate  right  into  the  ground  right 
 there  the  only  thing  you  want  to  do  is 
 you  want  to  peel  back  that  Mulch  and  you 
 kind  of  want  to  you  know  get  a  nice 
 little  hole  started  I  tend  to  use  like  a 
 piece  of  rebar  or  you  know  any  kind  of 
 little  post  that  you  might  have  like  a 
 little  sign  post  or  whatever  and  put  it 
 in  there  just  to  kind  of  that  way  you're 
 not  pushing  on  the  plant  too  much  and 
 then  you  put  it  in  um  so  you  would  want 
 to  take  him  in  and  put  him  into  the 
 ground  up  to  about  this  range  so  you 
 know  3  or  4  inches  or  little  less  than 
 half  of  the  overall  stem  so  if  I  cut  him 
 a  little  smaller  I  would  just  go  halfway 
 up  and  put  him  in  the  ground  and  they 
 propagate  right  from  there  so  within 
 within  3  months  they're  nice  and  solid 
 little  plant  and  they'll  start  to 
 reproduce  on  their  own  so  um  they're 
 really  cool  so  you  kind  of  see  what  it 
 does  now  if  I  put  him  down  here  like 
 this  this  little  bit  of  woodiness  that 
 you  see  here  you  will  no  longer  see  so 
 it  disguises  itself  so  I  love  plants 
 that  pay  rent  and  that's  exactly  what 
 these  guys  do  so  and  um  and  they're 
 they're  just  happy  you  can  see  that 
 right  on  the  tips  where  this  is  outside 
 the  lines  of  my  tree  that  these  are 
 getting  a  little  bit  sunburnt  they'll  do 
 that  early  part  of  Summer  until  they  get 
 really  adjusted  and  all  this  new  New 
 Growth  that  you  see  here  is  already 
 adapting  to  that  so  yeah  they're  just 
 stunners  and  and  a  lot  of  people  think 
 that  you  can  let  them  get  real  tall  and 
 leggy  actually  had  a  customer  last  week 
 who  said  the  same  thing  oh  I  love  those 
 plants  but  I  hate  it  when  they  get  tall 
 and  Ley  you  just  throw  them  out  and  I'm 
 like  oh  no  you  don't  you  don't  throw 
 them  out  you  just  cut  the  tallest  one 
 first  just  like  you  saw  me  do  put  that 
 right  back  in  the  ground  and  then  the 
 other  two  now  are  more  proportionate  so 
 the  two  that  are  remaining  now  you  have 
 the  lower  one  at  the  bottom  and  then  the 
 the  one  that  you  cut  now  is  now  nice  and 
 low  and  it's  going  to  propagate  two  new 
 stems  so  it'll  have  two  new  heads  from 
 that  cutting  and  then  you  get  a  third 
 stem  by  where  wherever  you  place  that 
 cutting  at  so  it's  it's  a  it's  that's 
 why  this  clustering  is  thick  and  dense 
 and  wide  and  not  tall  and  straight  and 
 skinny  so  um  but  check  out  that  video 
 it'll  go  into  more  instruction  on  that 
 so  um  then  we  have  another  we  have 
 another  statue  here  I  love  this  guy's 
 face  um  and  then  we  have  a  silver 
 odorata  popping  out  of  him  so  look  like 
 he's  got  some  some  crazy 
 hair  I'm  going  to  be  that  lady  with 
 statues  all  over  my  garden  my  kids  make 
 fun  of  me  but  that's  going  to  be  me  and 
 I  don't  care  missing  gnomes  just  missing 
 the  Gnomes  yes  and  and  yeah  I'm  sure 
 I'll  get  those  for  Christmas  um  so  this 
 is  a  Fiji  Palm  I  absolutely  love  Fiji 
 Palms  um  this  is  my  only  one  in  the 
 garden  I  planted  this  guy  from  a  three 
 gallon  size  and  look  at  him  he  is  happy 
 happy  happy  I  just  hit  him  with  a  a 
 little  bit  of  U  magnesium  and  um  cuz  you 
 can  kind  of  see  that  he's  he's  needing  a 
 little  bit  of  dose  but  look  his  new 
 fronds  are  coming  out 
 beautifully  just  look  at  the  size  of 
 that  compared  to  my  hand  I  mean  oh  my 
 goodness  he's  going  to  be  a  beautiful 
 tree  and  because  I  have  other  plants 
 behind  him  and  you'll  see  that  as  you 
 move  up  Bryce  his  trunk  is  starting  to 
 curve  which  just  really  it's  it's  just 
 so  stunning  I  mean  as  I  just  look  at  how 
 it's  looking  at  me  just 
 I  like  how  I  think  about  plans  it's  like 
 it  greets  me  as  I  walk  out  my  front  door 
 it's  just  like  wide  and  open  and  just 
 really  greets  me  here  I  just  think  that 
 is  so  cool  so  and  then  a  touch  of  Ruby 
 Reds  because  when  you  have  lime  green 
 why  not  have  purple  and  I  just  love  the 
 Ruby  Reds  in  this  little 
 grouping  yeah  you  know  this  is  a  little 
 flagstone  area  so  when  I  get  my  lemons 
 this  is  my  Myers  lemon  tree  um  and  it's 
 got  buds  it's  got  little  lemons  all  over 
 it  you  guys 
 and  um  when  I  get  there  then  I  can 
 easily  Harvest  and  bring  my  my  basket 
 here  and  it's  just  such  a  cool  little 
 spot  and  when  those  blooms  are  going  I 
 absolutely  love  it  so  I've  got  a  Myers 
 lemon  here  I've  got  a  variegated  lemon 
 over  there  and  I've  got  a  key  lime  on 
 the  side  and  it  produces  like  crazy  for 
 drinks  and  fun  stuff  and  you  know  it's 
 just  it's  just  an  awesome  I  love  it  I 
 love  it  when  when  when  plants  or  trees 
 offer  you  you  know  more  back  you  know  so 
 it's  kind  of  cool  again  I  have  another 
 Bugan  Vila  absolutely  love  this  coloring 
 and  um  it's  just  in  a  little  shallow  pot 
 here  that  was  also  another  gift  from  a 
 client  so  um  and  it's  just  sitting  on  an 
 a  pedestal  that  was  another  gift  from  a 
 client  seems  like  I  get  a  lot  of  those 
 um  but  yeah  so  it's  just  kind  of  a  cool 
 little  pop  in  what's  what  was  typically 
 a  kind  of  a  boring  spot  you  know  it  just 
 had  the  blaze  copper  leaf  there  and  it 
 needed  a  need  a  little  bit  of  a  a  change 
 up  and  then  right  below  it  is  the  U 
 silver  odor 
 bmon  and  a  couple  Boulders  and  then  a 
 cool  frog  and  this  too  was  a  gift  from 
 Peggy  Peggy's  also  if  you  guys  saw  the 
 backyard  or  sidey  yard  tour  she  gave  us 
 the  um  the  little  uh  little  cool  bench 
 on  the  side  and  um  she  also  gave  me  the 
 Frog  so  it  was  just  I  just  love  that 
 I've  got  little  pieces  from  from  all 
 over  the  garden  so  this  is  another 
 potted  plant  as  you  guys  have  noticed  I 
 love  mixing  the  potted  plants  within  the 
 garden  and  this  little  Nook  here  needed 
 something  and  this  is  also  where  all  my 
 cable  lines  run  um  as  you  can  see  from 
 all  my  boxes  that  are  I  try  to  hide  but 
 is  not  not  doing  a  great  job  of  it  but 
 they  all  run  this  direction  so  I  put  a 
 pot  here  with  this  cool  tapioca  tree  now 
 this  was  um  if  you  saw  my  sidey  yard 
 video  it  was  originally  in  a  pot  on  my 
 side  yard  and  it's  got  this  cool  Bend 
 because  in  the  sidey  yard  it  was  trying 
 to  find  the  Sun  so  gosh  you  got  to  love 
 Mother  Nature  because  how  resourceful  so 
 she  was  kind  of  coming  up  and  and  then 
 she  made  this  cool  curve  going  this  way 
 to  find  the  Sun  and  now  that  she's  been 
 here  for  a  little  while  now  she's  going 
 back  straight  up  so  look  at  those  bends 
 are  now  coming  straight  up  and  I  just 
 think  I  just  think  what  a  crate  I  mean  I 
 couldn't  have  picked  a  better  sculpture 
 for  this  spot  so  it  was  a  happy  accident 
 and  it  was  a  great  one  so  I  love  it  and 
 um  I  feed  her  about  every  once  a  month 
 or  so  but  but  yeah  I  am  speaking  of 
 feeding  this  is  the  liquid  feed  that  I 
 use  a  lot  on  my  um  my  buan  Vilas  um  tend 
 to  love  it  and  my  um  my  living  wall 
 really  really  loves  it  it's  just  an  easy 
 easy  product  to  use  and  what  um  what  I 
 do  this  is  a  hoseen  bib  I  love  that  it 
 comes  with  this  little  container  here 
 that's  on  on  the  on  the  wall  and  you 
 just  put  your  bottle  that  goes  in  here 
 it  screws  in  here  hose  in  beb  goes  there 
 and  then  all  you  have  to  do  is  yeah  so 
 all  you  do  is  put  this  guy  here  and  I 
 won't  go  into  too  much  detail  on  this 
 you  guys  because  I  have  this  in  my 
 storefront  down  below  but  I  just  think 
 it  was  a  cool  product  it  really  helps  a 
 lot  to  keep  everything  just  blooming 
 beautifully  and  it's  easy  and  I'm  all 
 about  easy  so  I  put  my  hose  bib  in  here 
 spend  two  minutes  and  I  click  this 
 button  and  it  just  goes  over  top  of 
 those  things  and  voila  I'm  done  it  it 
 allows  me  to  feed  so  much  more  than  when 
 I  pop  out  those  granular  and  do  that 
 then  um  because  I  haven't  just  walked  by 
 this  and  see  it  on  the  wall  I  I  don't 
 know  who  came  up  with  that  but  it's 
 genius  it's  right  next  to  the  hose  you 
 know  it's  just  kind  of  a  nice  one  of 
 those  nice  simple  happy  happy  easy 
 coincidences  to  to  start  so  that  is 
 definitely  on  my  storefront  and  my 
 favorite  gardening  tools  section  um  so 
 and  I  appreciate  you  guys  I've  just 
 recently  started  doing  the  storefront  so 
 I'm  def  definitely  making  sure  that  you 
 know  of  all  My  Favorite  Things  there's  a 
 handful  of  them  there's  not  many  but  um 
 it's  it's  something  that  if  you  click  on 
 it  I  get  a  little  commission  from  it  it 
 helps  the  channel  so  I  appreciate  you 
 doing  so  and  it  doesn't  cost  you  any 
 more  so  hopefully  that  tip  helps  and  um 
 if  I  run  across  anything  else  um  like  my 
 Falco  shears  are  on  there  um  my  Bea 
 edging  um  is  not  on  there  but  my  beaut 
 to  edging  I  do  have  a  link  down  below  as 
 an  affiliate  so  please  check  those 
 things  out  because  of  course  those 
 things  are  helpful  when  um  when  we're 
 doing  videos  like  this  so  so  thank  you 
 for  that  thank  you  guys  so  um  somehow  we 
 missed  my  favorite  part  of  the  garden  so 
 for  last  I  guess  so  right  right  I  said 
 we  we  say  the  best  for  last  but  um  in 
 case  you  guys  wondering  where  that  wine 
 and  where  that  coffee  is  had  it's  had 
 right  here  on  these  chairs  and  I 
 purposely  picked  these  chairs  because  I 
 they're  hard  to  get  up  out  of  so  you  can 
 sit  and  relax  and  then  you're  you're 
 struggling  to  get  out  I  put  up  my  little 
 umbrella  so  I  can  come  out  any  time  of 
 the  day  and  look  at  my  koi  pond  this  is 
 um  you  know  it 
 doesn't  you  I've  had  water  throughout  my 
 Gardens  for  years  and  years  and  years 
 but  it's  only  been  about  a  year  and  a 
 half  I've  had  my  koi  pond  and  I  really 
 have  enjoyed  just  seeing  these  beautiful 
 fish  every  single  day  um  and  and  having 
 the  sound  of  water  so  we've  got  um  we've 
 got  two  spillways  up  at  the  very  top  and 
 they  spill  water  down  those  Tennessee 
 Boulders  that  you  see  right  there  and 
 then  just  to  give  us  a  little  bit  more 
 air  flow  we  have  an  old  Basin  that  is 
 I'll  actually  show  you  an  old  Basin 
 that's  right  here  now  we  had  to  use  a 
 that's  part  of  a  fountain  and  we  had  to 
 use  the  fountain  top  for  another  project 
 so  I  didn't  really  know  what  to  do  with 
 this  one  so  what  we  did  is  we  ended  up 
 kind  of  putting  it  here  with  an  extra 
 hose  for  the  pump  and  just  slicing  out 
 little  slices  here  just  to  give  it  kind 
 of  a  rainfall  effect  and  it's  just  kind 
 of  doing  a  cool  little  you  know  cool 
 little  final  at  the  very  top  because 
 y'all  know  by  now  I'm  just  a  little 
 extra  so  it's  it's  doing  a  good  job  here 
 I  need  to  do  some  clippings  to  my  poor 
 elephant  ears  the  sun  is  no  joke  here  in 
 Florida  and  it  we're  almost  in  June  and 
 you  can  tell  it's  starting  so  um  I  I 
 just  I  just  I  think  it's  just  a  cool 
 cool  feature  with  these  dual  spillways 
 going  on  and  then  because  there  is  a 
 bare  spot  back  here  I  loved 
 incorporating  just  this  little  Eugene  at 
 topiary  on  here  you  know  anytime  you 
 have  all  this  wild  and  crazy  you  guys 
 know  I  like  to  put  a  little  bit  of 
 tidiness  around  here  so  I  just  love  this 
 kind  of  cool  look  to  this  plant  sitting 
 in  a  pot  exactly  and  just  FYI  I  know  so 
 many  of  you  guys  probably  know  this  um 
 but  all  of  these  impatients  that  you  see 
 here  they're  planted  in  the  water  so 
 impatience  if  you  have  a  water  feature 
 whether  it's  a  little  babbling  brook  or 
 a  little  fountain  or  a  little  waterfall 
 whatever  you  have  you  can  even  put  it  in 
 a  little  Fountain  kit  like  I  have  here 
 um  with  these  guys  but  you  can  put  them 
 and  just  rinse  off  their  um  the  dirt 
 from  their  roots  and  put  them  right  into 
 the  water  and  they  will  just  give  you 
 tons  of  color  they're  super  super  happy 
 and  they're  just  a  fantastic  fantastic 
 feature  in  the 
 garden  that  little  pot  right  there  with 
 the  little  Basin  that  would  um  also  a  um 
 Facebook  find  uh  I've  got  quite  a  few  of 
 those  little  little  um  bases  there  was  a 
 there  was  a  restaurant  that  was  going 
 out  of  business  a  little  wine  bar  and 
 they  had  them  as  little  table  base  and 
 so  I'm  going  to  find  places  all  through 
 the  garden  to  put  my  little  statues  on 
 and  I'm  still  playing  with  that  one  I'm 
 not  quite  quite  satisfied  with  it  but 
 I'm  going  to  I  just  think  it's  super 
 cool  so  um  and  then  I  have  a  little 
 spitter  my  old  man 
 spitter  he  is  he  is  right  there  on  that 
 corner  he  looks  kind  of  creepy  at  night 
 I've  got  some  lights  that  um  that  light 
 him  up  at  night  and  he  just  adds  a 
 little  bit  of  more  bubble  on  one  side 
 the  fish  love  to  go  under  there  and  hide 
 and  I  will  tell  you  guys  this  if  you're 
 planning  on  doing  a  pond  for 
 yourself  find  places  for  the  fish  to 
 hide  so  this  back  area  Bryce  I'll  kind 
 of  point  to  it  this  back  area  right  here 
 on  in  this  corner  here  they  really  right 
 right  there  they  really  um  do  a  really 
 good  job  of  they  do  a  really  good  job 
 they  actually  their  whole  purpose  of 
 them  is  to  have  they're  on  risers  so 
 they're  on  Boulders  themselves  so  the 
 fish  can  go  underneath  there  and  hide 
 from  you  know  predators  and  from  this 
 baking  sun  because  the  pond  is  about  3 
 and  1/2  foot  deep  I  wish  it  was  deeper 
 um  if  I  had  to  go  back  and  do  something 
 I  would  make  it  deeper  but  um  so  in 
 order  for  them  to  kind  of  get  away  from 
 this  blazing  sun  Midsummer  I  um  am  glad 
 that  they  have  that  little  area  that 
 whole  rear  corner  of  the  pond  is  pretty 
 much  on  rised  on  raced  um  bricks  that 
 allow  them  to  go  in  and  out  of  there  so 
 and  thank  God  for  it  because  we  have  the 
 egrets  and  the  eits  you  know  worry  me 
 with  trying  to  get  over  here  but  but 
 yeah  that  that  kind  of  kind  of  finishes 
 up  our  front  yard  um  more  plants  by  the 
 door  because  I  don't  have  enough  of  them 
 my  husband  says  every  time  he  sees  me 
 come  home  with  plants  load  in  the  back 
 of  the  truck  he's  like  where  he  doesn't 
 say  anything  else  he  just  says  where  I 
 was  like  well 
 so  um  so  these  are  of  course  are  for  the 
 summer  I  had  impatience  for  the  winter 
 and  um  I  just  love  poror  chilaka  I  I 
 think  their  blooms  are  beautiful  they 
 love  love  love  dry  um  spots  so  you  can 
 put  them  in  planters  and  kind  of  forget 
 about  them  I  give  them  water  about  once 
 a  week  and  they're  very  very  happy  with 
 me  so  I  put  them  during  the  summer 
 months  during  the  heat  in  just  about 
 every  pot  that  I  can  um  I  can  imagine 
 and  I  do  want  to  I  do  want  to  show  you 
 this  one  little  plant  right  here  right 
 if  you  can  get  a  closeup  I  know  the 
 angle  is  probably  not 
 great  um  but  this  Bugan  Vila 
 plant  it's  only  in  about  this  much  soil 
 this  the  bottom  is  all  rock  and  then 
 it's  got  soil  from  here  all  the  way  up 
 to  here  this  plant  I  took  out  of  a  a 
 project  um  where  the  lady  had  had  it  and 
 it  was  like  dead  as  a  door  nail  it  was 
 just  nothing  but  these  stems  but  I  love 
 the  white  coloring  and  it  had  one  little 
 one  little  stem  that  had  a  bloom  on  it 
 I'm  like  you  know  what  I  might  be  able 
 to  bring  that  back  and  it  had  has  been 
 so  happy  here  ever  since  so  buganvillas 
 they  um  you  know  they  love  to  be  fed  so 
 give  them  a  little  bit  of  that  Miracle 
 Grow  feeder  or  bgi  uh  buganvilia 
 fertilizer  any  of  those  work  really  well 
 and  then  they  just  they'll  just  really 
 just  Branch  out  and  be  beautiful  so  no 
 matter  how  small  the  pot  is  you  can 
 almost  treat  them  like  a  bonsai  put  them 
 in  a  really  tiny  pot  and  they  will  still 
 Branch  out  and  really  give  you  tons  of 
 blooms  because  this  thing  is  not  in  a 
 lot  of  soil  but  it's  reaching  out  and 
 it's  really  given  me  tons  of  blooms  and 
 I  it  does  it  it  blooms  probably  better 
 than  anything  that  I've  got  so  um  I  just 
 love  that  look  on  it  so 
 but  but  yeah  you  guys  oh  and  um  of 
 course  these  little  stands  I'm  seeing 
 them  more  and  more  when  I  first  got  this 
 I  um  I  rarely  saw  them  but  I  just  think 
 it's  such  a  cool  piece  it  was  given  to 
 me  from  a  um  a  friend  of  mine  who  passed 
 away  recently  she  owned  a  nursery  busy 
 be's  nursery  and  um  I  love  having  it  by 
 my  front  door  I  think  about  her  when  I 
 when  I  pass  it  and  um  I  know  I  just  I 
 love  having  those  kind  of  things  in  the 
 garden  and  so  and  that's  kind  of  what  my 
 yard  has  become  and  I  think  that's 
 what's  made  it  so  special  to  me  is  that 
 I've  got  pieces  and  and  little  little 
 things  that  have  come  from  from  past 
 clients  and  friends  and  family  and  you 
 know  cuz  when  you're  a  gardener 
 everybody  in  your  family  knows  you're  a 
 gardener  so  those  end  up  being  your 
 Christmas  gifts  and  your  you  know 
 anniversary  gifts  and  things  like  that 
 so  I  um  I  I  think  that's  what  makes  it 
 special  so  as  I  walk  around  my  garden  I 
 not  only  think  of  oh  how  pretty  this  is 
 or  how  nice  that's  doing  I  think 
 of  thank  you  Brenda  for  this  this  gift 
 or  you  know  thank  you  Mark  for  the  pots 
 or  you  know  thank  you  Peggy  for  you  know 
 it's  just  it's  I  don't  know  it's  it's 
 heartwarming  to  me  so  um  so  yeah  so  so 
 and  you  know  put  those  things  even  if 
 they're  not  perfect  even  if  they  have 
 their  flaws  put  them  out  in  your  garden 
 because  they  do  mean  something  and  I 
 know  they  mean  something  to  me  they 
 probably  mean  something  to  you  like  that 
 but  but  anyway  I  had  a  few  questions  oh 
 okay  Bryce  had  a  few  questions  I  was 
 going  to  just  give  you  a  little 
 interview  Style  if  you  wanted  to  oh  no  I 
 know  you  want  to  get  right  in  front  I'll 
 put  you  on  the  spot  oh  it's  on  the  spot 
 that's  great  if  someone  were  to  start  in 
 a  garden  in  the  front  yard  where  would 
 they  start  at  would  you  start  like  a 
 little  farther  back  would  you  start  a 
 little  closer  or  um  well  you  know  it 
 does  depend  it  it  really  def  definitely 
 depends  on  your  your  circumstances  um  I 
 always  in  general  start  at  the  furthest 
 point  so  I  start  at  the  property  lines 
 and  work  my  way  in  because  ultimately 
 every  square  inch  is  your  yard  and  we're 
 you  you  know  in  Florida  especially  it's 
 our  our  land  is  at  a  premium  and  you  you 
 want  to  be  able  to  utilize  every  bit  of 
 it  that's  why  I  have  landscaped  my  front 
 yard  my  side  yard  my  backyard  because  I 
 want  to  feel  that  I've  used  and  utilized 
 and  and  and  enjoy  every  every  bit  that  I 
 pay  tax  on  so  um  so  my  yard  is  set  up 
 that  way  so  I  do  try  to  design  yards  in 
 the  same  kind  of  fashion  so  um  start 
 from  from  the  property  line  and  work 
 your  way  in  and  then  the  very  first 
 thing  to  start  with  is  of  course  a  hedge 
 if  you're  going  to  start  with  it  like 
 the  clusia  Hedge  getting  that  started 
 and  established  even  if  you  start  teeny 
 tiny  three  gallon  size  um  get  that  kind 
 of  going  and  before  you  know  it  you're 
 now  ready  for  that  next  step  and  then 
 your  level  one  trees  right  after  that 
 put  put  in  your  big  trees  even  if 
 they're  again  three  gallon  or  seven 
 gallon  size  you  can  get  those  from 
 Lowe's  and  Home  Depot  and  and  find  them 
 just  about  anywhere  get  them  started  and 
 then  before  you  know  it  you're  now  ready 
 for  your  understory  trees  level  video 
 yep  and  I  I  do  have  a  level  video  thanks 
 Bryce  he  knows  my  videos  better  than  I 
 do  um  check  out  my  levels  video  and 
 that'll  explain  more  about  what  I  was 
 just  talking  about  so  um  yeah  but  you 
 can  create  it  you  can  start  this  Garden 
 you  can  do  it  yourself  and  and  you  know 
 it's  just  just  takes  a  little  bit  of 
 time  and  effort  I've  got  two  more 
 questions  for  you  oh  no  I'm  sorry  put 
 you  on  the  spot  love  you  mom  well  I  feel 
 like  people  can  overdo  statues  and  I 
 feel  like  people  can  overdo  like  uh  like 
 just  little  knickknacks  like  that  how  do 
 you  find  good  spots  for  them  that  just 
 don't  uh  take  up  your  eye  if  that  makes 
 sense 
 cuz  I  feel  I  feel  like  you  have  them  in 
 the  perfect  spots  like  they're  just 
 subtle  and  nice  touches  like  oh  I  didn't 
 even  see  that  there  and  it  was  it  it 
 turns  out  really  nice  how  do  you  do 
 that  well  first  thank  you  and  thank  you 
 for  this  whole  interview  style  you  might 
 want  to  mention  that  before  we  started 
 the  video  um  but  um  so  I  you  know  I 
 think  that's  preference  obviously  um  you 
 know  it  depends  on  on  your  personal 
 style  it  this  might  be  too  much  for  you 
 who  knows  um  as  a  designer  I  know  that  I 
 love  mixing  elements  in  the  garden  so  if 
 I've  got  a  lot  of  soft  material  I  want 
 to  make  sure  that  I've  got  something 
 more  more  either  rustic  or  more  stonik 
 or  whether  it's  Boulders  it's  statues 
 it's  something  U  structural  vertical 
 Wise  It's  you  know  even  something  is 
 like  a  bird  feeder  or  something  along 
 those  lines  that  give  us  a  little  break 
 because  those  things  when  you're  looking 
 at  a  whole  garden  sometimes  your  eye 
 gets  lost  and  sometimes  it's  ideal  to 
 have  a  focal  point  forward  back  angled 
 you  know  angled  in  throughout  the  beds 
 to  kind  of  give  your  eye  that  place  to 
 instantly  go  to  instantly  rest  and  then 
 if  you  can  do  that  too  with  color  you 
 know  I've  done  that  a  lot  of  times  where 
 clients  are  not  like  me  they  don't  want 
 5,000  gnomes  or  things  in  the  garden  but 
 they  want  they  want  those  pops  and  so 
 what  I'll  do  is  I'll  I'll  have  more  of  a 
 monochromatic  kind  of  plant  grouping  and 
 then  I'll  hit  like  a  Powerhouse  of 
 yellow  right  in  that  middle  or  a 
 Powerhouse  of  um  purple  with  some  Ruby 
 Reds  and  some  you  know  some  mix  of 
 colors  in  there  so  that  way  um  that  way 
 your  eye  goes  there  there  there  and  then 
 you  kind  of  get  the  whole  the  whole  feel 
 of  the 
 space  I  have  one  more  question  one  more 
 question  it's  also  probably  the  hardest 
 question  so  you  prepared  all  right  let's 
 go  what  is  your  favorite  color  to  have 
 in  a  garden  oh  gosh  that  is  the  hardest 
 part  I'm  looking 
 around  I'm  very  sorry  but  I  cannot  pick 
 one  yeah  I  uh  I  um  I  love  color  I  I 
 absolutely  love  color  I'm  and  I  have  no 
 biased  against  any  color  and  the  more  of 
 it  um  the  better  um  I  do  tend  to  like 
 instead  of  color  being  red  pink  yellow 
 orange  like  right  in  the  cluster  I  do  10 
 clumps  clusters  I  I  I  really  do  enjoy 
 that  mix  so  I'll  do  a  hot  spot  of  red 
 and  then  right  next  to  that  red  I'll  do 
 a  hot  spot  of  pink  and  I  know  that's  a 
 big  no  no  in  the  in  the  design  world  but 
 for  me  in  the  landscape  world  and  way 
 Mother  Nature  works  it  works  it  just 
 works  so  um  you'll  see  that  in  my 
 backyard  garden  tour  that  it's  just 
 there's  just  different  there's  all 
 different  colors  mixed  in  together  but  I 
 tend  to  like  to  really  do  groups  of 
 things  because  I  think  that  you  get  more 
 impact  it's  like  they  they  show  up  a 
 little  bit  better  so  um  but  all  of  it  so 
 all  all  colors  yeah  so  so  all  colors 
 work  for  me  but  um  now  that  you're  done 
 with  your  questions  right  Ry  um  I  want 
 to  thank  you  guys  for  joining  me  for 
 this  um  this  Walkabout  cuz  this  is  now  I 
 guess  not  so  much  a  garden  tour  but  more 
 of  like  just  walking  through  the  garden 
 with  me  and  so  many  of  you  guys  have 
 subscribed  and  I  thank  you  for  that  and 
 this  has  been  a  fun  project  for  me  Bryce 
 and  um  my  family  we've  just  enjoyed 
 doing  these  videos  together  and  watching 
 them  and  um  you  know  and  then  your 
 comments  of  course  make  it  just  so  nice 
 because  I  feel  like  we're  really 
 interacting  and  I  feel  like  I've  really 
 helped  a  lot  of  people  determine  what 
 they  like  and  what  maybe  what  they  don't 
 like  and  what  works  well  in  our  area  and 
 that  was  actually  how  this  video  started 
 was  to  give  you  some  tried  andrue  plants 
 that  will  really  work  well  in  our  in  our 
 Florida  climate  so  um  because  it  can  be 
 tricky  and  it  can  be  tough  doing  this  25 
 years  has  um  has  been  its  challenges  and 
 I've  made  my  mistakes  and  I've  tried  to 
 share  what  those  mistakes  are  with  my 
 clients  and  now  with  my  YouTube  friends 
 um  so  because  there  there  were  there 
 were  many  of  them  I  definitely  didn't 
 get  it  right  the  first  time  so  but 
 speaking  of  that  so  I  have  been  in 
 business  for  25  years  I  have  a  landscape 
 company  my  husband  and  I  have  owned  it 
 um  again  for  25  years  and  um  we 
 specialize  in  landscape  design  and 
 installation  so  I  do  all  the  design  work 
 for  all  my  clients  I  meet  with  you 
 directly  and  then  he  handles  the 
 installation  with  our  in-house 
 installation  crew  and  we  um  service 
 areas  I'll  get  Bryce  to  stick  the  map  up 
 right  above  right  somewhere  and  then 
 that  way  yeah  point  right  there  Bryce  is 
 point  right  there  um  where  uh  where  we 
 service  and  we'd  be  very  happy  to  meet 
 with  you  um  to  do  your  design  and 
 installation  and  to  give  you  a  complete 
 project  so  um  give  us  a  call  if  that's 
 something  that  you're  looking  for  I'll 
 put  our  contact  information  in  our 
 website  down  below  and  check  out  that 
 the  how  it  works  page  and  then  it'll  go 
 into  way  more  detail  than  I  have  time 
 for  in  this  video  so  but  for  the  rest  of 
 you  guys  you  diyers  you  know  get  out  in 
 the  garden  I  I  wish  it  was  a  place  that 
 I  could  you  know  see  your  photos  because 
 I  hear  so  many  great  comments  about  what 
 you've  done  what  you  picked  up  the 
 plants  that  you've  chosen  because  of 
 some  of  the  videos  I  absolutely  love  it 
 sorry  DM  it  to  you  on  Instagram  oh  okay 
 so  see  DM  it  to  me  on  Instagram  um  but  I 
 would  yeah  so  I'd  love  to  see  the 
 progress  because  that's  such  inspiration 
 to  me  because  I  enjoy  being  in  my  garden 
 and  I  enjoy  tinkering  around  and  adding 
 plants  I  know  you're  probably  wondering 
 where  but  I  do  I  pull  out  my  handy  dandy 
 little  augur  I  put  it  in  the  ground  and 
 I  um  I  add  Pocket  little  plants  here  and 
 there  and  I  don't  think  I'll  ever  stop 
 doing  that  so  um  it's  just  uh  Bryce 
 asked  me  earlier  he  goes  when  are  you 
 going  to  be  done  I'm  like  um  obviously 
 never  so  um  and  I  know  most  of  you 
 gardeners  are  the  same  this  Garden 
 evolved  over  time  this  was  not  overnight 
 um  so  please  be  patient  with  yourselves 
 out  there  because  it's  it  it  it  takes 
 times  and  then  there's  some  failures 
 there  too  so  um  it  it  happens  to  the 
 rest  of  us  but  that's  why  you  get  so 
 excited  about  it  when  things  are  working 
 and  things  are  doing  well  and  things  are 
 flourishing  and  and  you  know  you're  just 
 out  here  and  then  you  could  admire  it 
 it's  it's  I  I  call  it  my  own  personal 
 Resort  but  a  resort  I  don't  have  any 
 attachment  to  my  yard  I  do  and  seeing 
 that  flourish  every  single  day  and  get 
 better  and  better  gosh  it  just  just 
 makes  me  happy  so  and  I'm  happy  to  share 
 it  with  you  guys  so  I  will  see  you  in 
 the  very  next  video  I  think  we  have  a 
 backyard  upcoming  tour  the  next  visit 
 that  Bryce  comes  by  so  hopefully  you 
 guys  will  check  that  out  and  um  oh  Bryce 
 just  reminded  me  comment  true  Garder 
 like  And  subscribe  hit  the  little 
 notification  thingy  and  I  would  be  very 
 very  happy  to  um  pop  up  on  your  feed 
 when  um  we  have  a  new  video  pop  out  so  I 
 will  see  you  guys  in  the  very  next  video 
 take  care 
 [Music]

---

 well  hello  you  guys  welcome  back  so 
 today  we're  going  to  do  a  tour  of  tour 
 15  side  yard  Gardens  I  am  in  love  with 
 this  sidey  I  cannot  wait  to  share  it 
 with  you  guys  sidey  yards  have  become  my 
 go-to  for  Designing  recently  because  you 
 know  normally  we  do  a  lot  of  front  yard 
 Gardens  we  do  a  lot  of  backyard  gardens 
 but  now  with  having  a  sidey  yard  area 
 that's  pretty  much  overall  wasted  space 
 you  know  there's  really  nothing  to  to 
 draw  you  over  to  your  sidey  yard  it's 
 kind  of  where  you  house  your  pool 
 equipment  or  your  AC  unit  and  but  in 
 this  particular  spot  we  were  able  to 
 take  a  grass  path  that  housed  equipment 
 and  create  a  nice  nice  little 
 destination  so  I  cannot  wait  to  walk 
 through  and  share  that  with  you  so  today 
 we  have  Bryce  back  and  he's  going  to  be 
 doing  the  filming  and  um  Bryce  um  before 
 we  get  started  with  the  Tor  you  kind  of 
 want  to  just  walk  through  do  a  little  um 
 just  kind  of  a  little  sneak  peak  of  what 
 we're  going  to  be  looking  at  in  the 
 sidey  yard  backyard  so  this  is  exactly 
 what  Sharon  was  dealing  with  she  really 
 didn't  have  much  of  a  backyard  to  speak 
 of  Cu  the  pool  pretty  much  took  over  the 
 whole  backyard  and  it  gave  her  the  idea 
 to  kind  of  do  something  along  the  side 
 yard  and  create  her  own  space  here  and  I 
 think  that's  exactly  what  we 
 accomplished  so  we  took  up  all  the  grass 
 we  brought  in  some  tahan  gray  Granite 
 some  beautiful  flagstone  inset  the  um 
 the  flagstone  all  the  way  way  from  the 
 gate  to  the  pool  screen  and  then  did 
 Gardens  on  um  on  either  side  of  it  so 
 it's  um  it's  really  it's  really 
 something  that  she  enjoys  she's  already 
 had  most  of  her  neighbors  here  walking 
 through  the  path  and  and  enjoying  the 
 water  feature  and  and  just  she  has  the 
 some  of  the  best  neighbors  here  in 
 Sapphire  Lakes  it's  just  been  such  a 
 cool  spot  to  to  sit  and  relax  and  share 
 um  share  this  garden  with  them  they've 
 just  been  I  don't  know  they've  been 
 awesome  so  the  main  reason  what  Sharon 
 wanted  to  do  a  um  a  a  garden  over  on 
 this  side  is  because  she  does  enjoy 
 sitting  out  here  um  originally  I'll  I'll 
 get  Bryce  a  slide  in  a  before  picture  of 
 the  the  pretty  much  nothing  but  grass 
 that  was  here  um  originally  and  then  um 
 but  when  she  sat  here  she  had  a  pretty 
 direct  view  of  the  house  right  across 
 her  and  that  was  her  main  I  mean  that 
 house  is  pretty  much  facing  her  whole 
 sidey  yard  and  normally  that  would  be 
 fine  if  you  don't  spend  much  time  out 
 here  but  considering  Sharon  did  not  have 
 a  backyard  to  work  with  she  really  did 
 want  to  kind  of  create  a  sidey  space 
 that  would  give  her  buffering  give  her 
 Gardens  give  her  you  know  some  some  you 
 know  some  magic  back  here  some  Nostalgia 
 so  um  she's  got  a  beautiful  space  to  uh 
 to  do  that  with  and  I  I  can't  wait  to 
 share  with  you  guys  the  plants  and  the 
 trees  and  um  you  know  kind  of  what  we 
 chose  to  put  here  I  will  um  because  of 
 the  comments  I  will  kind  of  explain  a 
 little  bit  about  each  plant  and  tree 
 grouping  um  kind  of  overall  what  size  uh 
 they  grow  into  um  just  just  a  little  bit 
 of  information  about  that  Collective 
 grouping  and  kind  of  why  I  chose  to  to 
 put  them  and  and  where  I  chose  to  put 
 them  so  that  way  if  you  guys  are  looking 
 to  do  a  shopping  list  or  looking  to  kind 
 of  you  know  get  some  research  on  what 
 you  might  do  for  your  own  garden  this 
 might  be  really  helpful  for  you  and  then 
 of  course  don't  forget  to  like  And 
 subscribe  if  this  is  kind  of  your  thing 
 you  love  love  looking  at  Gardens  you're 
 sitting  there  with  your  glass  of  wine  or 
 your  cup  of  coffee  depending  what  time 
 of  day  it  is  look  at  how  I  gauge 
 everything  Accord  wine  and  coffee  engag 
 the  times  of  days  um  but  um  don't  forget 
 to  hit  that  notification  bell  too  don't 
 for  get  to  hit  the  notification  Bell 
 whenever  we  post  as  Ry  says  so  you  know 
 when  we  post  um  so  I  look  forward  to 
 seeing  you  guys  in  all  of  these  videos 
 and  if  there's  a  video  out  there  or 
 there's  there's  a  spot  in  your  garden 
 that  you're  looking  to  tackle  then 
 please  leave  in  the  comments  down  below 
 because  we're  always  looking  for  ideas 
 we're  always  trying  to  you  know 
 brainstorm  what  is  going  to  be  a  cool 
 thing  to  share  with  our  gardening 
 Community  you  know  do  you  do  you  guys 
 like  privacy  buffers  are  you  really  you 
 know  um  trying  to  trying  to  conceal  a 
 pool  area  maybe  do  you  not  do  you  like 
 your  neighbor  but  do  you  not  want  them 
 to  answer  the  question  that  you're 
 asking  your  wife  or  your  husband  over 
 there  by  yelling  ac  across  the  pool  at 
 you  which  is  one  of  one  of  my  clients 
 said  to  me  recently  so  if  you're  looking 
 for  privacy  then  definitely  um  you  know 
 don't  don't  don't  skimp  on  on  your 
 coverage  out  here  with  some  natural  live 
 material  because  that's  what  really 
 creates  and  enfolds  a  space  together  so 
 I'm  going  to  share  with  you  what  I  chose 
 for  Sharon's  um  garden  and  we'll  kind  of 
 just  uh  kind  of  just  go  from  there  so 
 all  right  so  here  we  are  um  Bryce  is 
 standing  right  at  the  edge  of  the  gate 
 so  this  is  the  entry 
 point  my  truck  right  there  is  the 
 obviously  the  driveway  section  so  this 
 is  how  all  of  her  guests  enter  the  space 
 and  right  to  the  left  here  Bryce  you'll 
 see  that  um  we  have  some  Panama  Rose 
 these  are  beautiful  delicate  little 
 flowers  that  mature  out  to  around  3  foot 
 tall  keep  them  a  nice  clustering  around 
 three  foot  now  when  I  say  they  mature 
 out  to  it  that  means  that  you  can  keep 
 them  maintained  at  3  3  and  1/2  tall 
 without  them  becoming  a  woody  stem  of 
 nothing  that  means  that  they'll  be  bushy 
 they'll  be  Lush  they'll  be  full  and  they 
 can  stay  at  3  3  and  1  half  foot  tall  by 
 being  trimmed  that  way  that  doesn't  mean 
 they'll  stop  growing  um  in  Florida  every 
 everything  just  keeps  growing  but  they 
 have  the  ability  to  be  maintained  and 
 stay  beautiful  um  now  the  to  the  back 
 right  there  we  have  the  Brazilian  Red 
 cloaks  which  are  my  favorite  plants  of 
 all  time  I  just  love  what  they  do  in  the 
 garden  they  are  going  to  reach  up  to  I 
 think  Sharon's  going  to  let  them  get 
 around  6  foot  and  completely  engulf  that 
 whole  corner  of  the  U  of  the  the  side 
 yard  area  so  you're  going  to  see  she's 
 going  to  see  that  from  inside  and  then 
 her  neighbors  are  going  to  see  that  um 
 pretty  much  from  the  outside  so  it'll  be 
 a  nice  clustering  of  that  hot  pink 
 cone-shaped  flower  right  there  um  she 
 does  have  a  filad  drian  that's  sitting 
 there  that  was  one  thing  that  we  took 
 out  of  the  garden  that  we  didn't  find  a 
 place  for  so  that's  going  to  en  neighbor 
 um  but  so  that's  the  Brazilian  Red 
 cloaks  are  going  to  fill  in  this  whole 
 spot  this  came  from  another  part  of 
 Sharon's  yard  that  we  didn't  want  to 
 dispose  of  it  was  still  healthy  and 
 happy  it's  going  through  a  little  bit  of 
 transplant  shock  but  it  is  going  to  come 
 back  and  be  just  that  gorgeous  um  bright 
 white  coloring  in  the  garden  I  love  the 
 fragrance  the  smell  I  try  to  put 
 gardinas  near  a  seating  section  or  near 
 a  gated  entrance  because  just  being  hit 
 with  that  right  off  the  bat  I  don't  know 
 it  just  it  just  says  welcome  you  know 
 it's  just  it's  just  one  of  those 
 fantastic  things  and  if  you  guys  have 
 gardinas  in  your  um  in  your  landscape 
 and  they're  in  full  bloom  and  they're 
 just  going  to  town  clip  a  few  of  those 
 blooms  off  put  them  in  a  bowl  of  water 
 on  your  kitchen  counter  and  your  whole 
 kitchen  smells  like  gardinas  it's  just  I 
 just  love  it  so  I've  got  three  of  these 
 guys  near  my  seating  sections  and  during 
 this  time  of  the  year  I've  got  gardinia 
 smell  and  bathrooms  and  kitchens  and  I 
 just  love  it  so  um  and  then  we  finished 
 it  off  with  a  little  clustering  again  of 
 Panama  Rose  so  imagine 
 as  this  whole  grouping  connects  and  and 
 grows  together  these  Panama  roses  are 
 going  to  be  around  three  foot  tall  then 
 you  have  this  nice  little  bulb  is  kind 
 of  feature  as  a  middle  the  middle  accent 
 in  the  garden  and  she's  going  to  let 
 this  be  around  five  foot  um  little  tree 
 here  and  that'll  be  a  nice  dark  green 
 when  it's  not  in  bloom  and  a  beautiful 
 green  and  white  when  it  is  and  then  back 
 to  the  Pink  on  the  corner  where  it  goes 
 3  foot  and  then  backdrop  of  all  of  that 
 beautiful  Glory  all  of  that  beautiful 
 color  of  the  Brazilian  red  cloaks  so 
 it'll  be  a  nice  entry  and  a  nice  ending 
 point  when  you're  looking  from  the 
 garden  this  way  so  hopefully  Sharon  will 
 have  us  back  um  for  a  tour  and  that  way 
 we  can  share  that  um  with  you  guys  now 
 this  area  obviously  is  very  empty  and 
 I'm  not  showcasing  The  Mulch  here  what's 
 happened  here  this  is  phase  two  of  the 
 garden  so  we  have  been  able  to  pop  in 
 some  gorgeous  sun  loving  plants  but 
 Sharon  is  a  woman  after  my  own  heart  she 
 does  not  mind  waiting  to  get  what  she 
 wants  and  that's  exactly  what  she  did 
 with  this  particular  spot  right  here 
 this  is  a  spot  that  we  are  waiting  for 
 this  tree  to  pop  out  a  little  further  we 
 started  trimming  it  down  below  here  so 
 it's  going  to  kind  of  overhang  almost 
 this  Bonsai  style  kind  of  come  out  this 
 way  during  the  summer  and  we're  going  to 
 keep  trimming  it  under  here  that  way  we 
 get  a  nice  patch  of  um  shade  in  this 
 spot  and  she  wants  to  come  in  with  some 
 alloca  some  shade  loving  farfugium  some 
 um  some  ground  orchids  some  things  like 
 that  in  this  particular  spot  of  the 
 garden  but  what  we  need  to  do  is  we  need 
 to  wait  for  this  to  grow  into  its  its  um 
 roll  and  then  we  need  to  wait  for  the 
 Alfred  Palm  across  from  it  to  do  the 
 same  that  way  we  have  shade  on  both 
 sides  of  the  pathway  and  it's  going  to 
 do  a  good  job  of  offering  her  a  variety 
 of  different  plants  within  her  garden  so 
 I  love  that  she's  patient  enough  to  uh 
 to  wait  for  that  to  happen  speaking  of 
 trees  this  guy  right  here  is  a  cold 
 coconut  palm  um  also  known  as  Alfred 
 Palm  it  is  a  very  similar  look  to 
 coconut  palms  however  it  is  a  much  much 
 much  much  slower  grower  so  it  gets 
 anywhere  between  six  to8  inches  of 
 growth  a  year  it's  very  very  slow  right 
 now  you  can  notice  that  it's  doing  a 
 little  bit  of  transplant  shock  that  is 
 the  negative  to  a  slow  growing  tree  is 
 it  does  not  bounce  back  as  quickly  as  a 
 typical  coconut  palm  wood  for  instance 
 it's  going  to  take  a  little  bit  more 
 time  but  give  it  that  one  6  months  to  a 
 year  in  the  garden  and  then  that  canopy 
 really  starts  to  unfold  you'll  start  to 
 notice  that  that  popping  out  and  I'll 
 get  Bryce  to  slide  in  a  picture  of  what 
 those  look  like  when  they're  um  when 
 they're  you  know  established  and  growing 
 in  they  they  have  always  have  a  very 
 little  trunk  to  them  but  the  canopies 
 are  just  Broad  and  gorgeous  so  this  guy 
 is  going  to  cast  so  much  shade  across 
 the  garden  this  way  that  we  just  we  just 
 know  what  he's  going  to  do  so  um  so  it's 
 going  to  be  a  lovely  a  lovely  punch  in 
 the  garden  right  here  we  have  a  little 
 bit  of  a  dry  spot  um  for  Sharon's 
 irrigation  so  this  Zone  that  she's  on 
 and  you  guys  keep  this  in  mind  when 
 you're  doing  your  own  gardening  this 
 zone  is  a  um  not  really  provided  a  whole 
 lot  of  coverage  we  do  have  two  heads  on 
 each  corner  but  we  didn't  have  enough 
 for  um  heads  to  go  along  this  middle 
 enough  pressure  so  what  I  chose  to  do  is 
 this  is  going  to  be  a  patch  of  a  drier 
 kind  of  funloving  um  plant  grouping  this 
 is  dwarf  hel  Helen  Johnson  bgan  Vila  and 
 look  at  these  blooms  on  these  you  guys 
 they're  just  stunning 
 they're  such  a  fun  Bloomer  all  year  long 
 you  can  maintain  these  at  3  and  1/2t  so 
 they  are  dwarfed  bgan  Villa  um  they  do 
 have  the  Thorns  but  um  they  they  just  I 
 you  know  I  I  think  they're  going  to  make 
 a  fantastic  I  would  say  glorified  hedge 
 because  that's  kind  of  what  they  turn 
 into  they're  kind  of  you  can  see  the 
 swoop  I  have  as  a  backdrop  here  and  then 
 I  did  a  a  really  nice  clustering  of  um 
 yellow  thalis  in  the  middle  now  these 
 are  not  in  bloom  but  these  bloom  a 
 beautiful  yellow  tassel  flower  um 
 they're  a  fantastic  native  plant  they're 
 going  to  really  draw  in  the  um 
 butterflies  like  crazy  so  um  and  then  of 
 course  they  light  the  dry  weather  so 
 they're  going  to  do  well  with  the  lack 
 of  irrigation  so  um  these  this  this 
 whole  area  right  here  will  do  well  with 
 just  after  it's  established  well  with  um 
 just 
 rainwater  so  right  here  um  I  don't  know 
 if  you  guys  remember  from  when  Bryce  was 
 doing  the  walking  area  or  the  quick  walk 
 through  that  um  this  opens  up  to  a 
 little  seating  section  on  each  side  of 
 the  seating  section  and  on  the  corner  of 
 where  the  walkway  starts  to  turn  and 
 both  areas  I  chose  to  put  a  single  King 
 Alexander  the  single  King  Alexander  is 
 just  a  sturdy  little  tree  I  swear  they 
 look  like  soldiers  in  the  garden  I  just 
 love  their  upright  very  vertical  very 
 Dynamic  fra  canopy  I  think  they're  just 
 such  a  cool  tree  and  what  they  do  to  me 
 what  they  do  for  me  is  they  kind  of 
 create  a  um  kind  of  like  an  umbrella 
 feel  in  the  garden  so  you  have  you  know 
 these  like  Resort  style  umbrellas  and 
 then  so  it's  nothing  but  a  clean  trunk 
 and  then  you  got  that  great  canopy  above 
 you  so  um  these  are  the  biggest  ones 
 that  we  could  get  into  this  location  I 
 would  have  loved  to  had  them  about  two 
 foot  taller  but  as  I  mentioned  Sharon's 
 a  fantastic  patient  Garder  so  she  knows 
 what  they're  going  to  do  in  a  matter  of 
 a  year  they'll  be  up  and  over  us  um  I 
 told  her  we  could  cut  these  fronds  but 
 she's  just  like  me  she  goes  i'  just 
 rather  go  under  them  so  it's  fine  so  um 
 just  cuz  they're  just  so  beautiful  but 
 um  so  the  the  pathway  curves  around 
 giving  us  a  reason  to  go  around  and  I 
 love  it  when  you  look  from  the  gate 
 looking  down  the  walkway  path  you  see 
 this  as  almost  like  an  interruption 
 between  this  and  the  Mimosa  both  of 
 those  are  giving  you  kind  of  a  nice 
 Interruption  so  you  kind  of  see  a  little 
 bit  about  what's  going  on  back  there  but 
 not  see  the  whole  thing  which  Sharon's 
 um  neighbors  are  absolutely  done 
 throughout  the  whole  project  they  popped 
 through  in  the  evenings  and  they've  just 
 walked  through  this  garden  and  I'm  like 
 we're  all  almost  done  we're  we're  almost 
 done  but  she's  entertained  and  enjoyed 
 sitting  here  with  her  neighbors  so  much 
 and  I  just  I  love  getting  the  pictures  I 
 love  hearing  that  because  I  think  that 
 this  is  this  is  exactly  what  these 
 spaces  are  for  they're  for  you  to  create 
 those  memories  and  moments  and  and  get 
 people  outside  so  um  I  just  I  think 
 that's  a  that's  a  great  it's  it's  a 
 great  Testament  to  any  landscape 
 designer  when  you  can  see  pictures  of 
 people  and  enjoying  your  space  that  was 
 originally  a  wasted  space  that  was 
 originally  a  space  that  you  didn't  even 
 notice  and  of  course  Florida  lots  are  at 
 a  premium  here  so  to  me  it's  it's  all 
 about  making  use  of  every  possible 
 location  of  your  yard  um  that's  why  I've 
 landscaped  my  entire  space  my  entire 
 yard  um  I  love  more  intimate  styles  on 
 the  side  and  then  opens  up  to  Big 
 tropical  landscapes  in  the  back  more 
 paired  back  fun  tropical  landscapes  in 
 the  front  and  that's  just  my  style  and 
 so  I'm  so  glad  that  I  get  to  do  that 
 across  um  you  know  across  the  treasure 
 and  Space  Coast  for  for  a  lot  of  my  uh 
 for  a  lot  of  my  customers  because 
 because  I  get  to  see  a  lot  of  it  on 
 YouTube  so  and  I'm  hoping  this  shares  a 
 lot  of  inspiration  for  you  guys  to  get 
 out  in  your  garden  and  do  the  same  thing 
 so  okay  back  to  the  tour  so  this  is 
 another  Alfred  Palm  and  these  Palms  to 
 the  back  are  pygmy  dates  and  I  know  I 
 feature  pyme  date  palms  in  my  garden  a 
 lot  and  I'm  about  to  just  kind  of  remind 
 you  why  so  this  where  you're  where  Bryce 
 is  standing  and  you  guys  are  standing  is 
 the  seating  section  right  here  and  um 
 she's  going  to  do  a  fire  pit  and  a  few 
 chairs  and  entertain  her  neighbors  here 
 and  this  is  going  to  be  her  relaxing 
 point  however  this  area  circles  oh  wow 
 sorry  you 
 guys  it  looks  like  it  looks  like  our  air 
 force  is  doing  a  bit  of  practicing  today 
 isn't  it  isn't  it  amazing  I  just  some  of 
 those  formations  that  we've  seen  while 
 we  were  sitting  here  um  doing  these 
 takes  has  been  phenomenal  we  keep 
 starting  and  then  that  comes  through  and 
 then  we  stop  and  then  we  start  we  stop 
 so  this  is  about  take  five  I  think  Bryce 
 so  because  we  we  were  trying  to  trying 
 to  get  some  of  that  sound  down  but 
 anyway  um  so  this  these  pigate  Palms  are 
 um  going  to  they're  about  5  foot  tall 
 now  but  they're  going  to  mature  out  to 
 about  12T  tall  so  when  they  do  that  the 
 trunks  themselves  will  be  about  about 
 three  and  1  half  maybe  4  foot  um  in 
 height  and  then  the  canopy  is  the 
 remainder  of  that  height  so  you  get  a 
 solid  canopy  grouping  these  three  will 
 hammock  behind  this  tree  and  become  a 
 solid  wall  of  fronds  which  pretty  much 
 makes  that  big  bright  house  that's 
 facing  directly  across  from  her  seating 
 section  go  away  uh  between  this  in  this 
 tree  it's  really  going  to  be  a  nice 
 clustering  of  jungle  Palms  that's  really 
 going  to  soften  her  space  and  you'll 
 notice  that  we  tried  to  work  with  the 
 landscape  that  she  had  she's  got  two  oak 
 trees  that  they  planted  and  those  that's 
 not  her  yard  that's  the  common  area  but 
 we're  going  to  utilize  that  so  you  see 
 the  first  Alfred  Palm  is  in  the  gap 
 between  the  these  two  um  oak  trees  and 
 then  we  have  a  big  clustering  in  the  gap 
 between  the  other  two  oak  trees  so  that 
 way  we  kept  and  borrowed  the  Landscaping 
 from  you  know  from  the  common  area  and 
 um  and  really  only  hit  the  hot  spots 
 that  we  needed  too  and  then  we  also  were 
 able  to  doll  up  underneath  what  those 
 oak  trees  are  going  to  grow  in  and  do 
 and  this  Garden  is  going  to  become  such 
 a  beautiful  thick  Garden  of  different 
 kinds  of  foliage  different  kinds  of 
 trees  it's  just  I  cannot  wait  to  come 
 back  and  share  it  with  you  you  guys  cuz 
 I  know  Sharon  will  have  us  back  to  to  do 
 an  updated  tour  in  a  in  a  year  or  so  so 
 that  way  you  guys  get  to  see  it  all 
 grown  in  um  so  because  we  did  such  a 
 heavy  clustering  of  Palms  right  here  we 
 kind  of  manipulated  um  a  full  sun 
 environment  to  a  very  filtered  light  I 
 mean  so  I  would  have  never  been  able  to 
 plant  this  plant  collection  here  had  we 
 not  put  in  what  we've  put  in  here 
 because  I  know  this  tree  is  not  a 
 regular  coconut  palm  and  is  not  going  to 
 outgrow  this  spot  and  take  the  shade 
 away  because  it  continues  to  grow  high 
 and  become  kind  of  more  of  a  bean  pole 
 it's  going  to  always  stay  white  and 
 thick  and  dense  which  is  going  to  create 
 a  nice  dense  shade  canopy  for  this 
 little  splotch  of  plant  grouping  so  um 
 between  the  pygmies  and  the  Alfred  Palm 
 this  area  is  going  to  be  fantastic  for  a 
 little  pop  of  dark  Tropicals  we've  got 
 farfugium  in  the  back  those  big  giant 
 leaves  also  known  as  giant  leopards  ear 
 then  we've  got  bird's  nest  ferns  with 
 that  lime  green  color  just  below  them 
 what  a  cool  Leaf  these  guys  have  I  love 
 their  upright  look  and  just  so  you  guys 
 know  those  those  can  also  that  they  grow 
 fantastic  in  the  ground  they  grow 
 fantastic  in  the  shade  they  grow 
 fantastic  in  moist  areas  but  they  also 
 grow  great  on  Palm  or  oak  trees  you  can 
 actually  put  them  right  on  the  tree  like 
 you  do  in  Orchid  wrap  it  and  it'll  grow 
 just  like  that  all  the  way  up  a  tree  and 
 it  is  so  so  very  cool  so  that's  my  next 
 project  at  my  in  my  yard  so  I'm  going  to 
 put  some  of  them  on  my  um  my  COC  cocut 
 Palm  so  I'll  have  to  share  that  with  you 
 guys  later  but  um  on  each  side  these  are 
 imperialis  burm  milads  and  we  know  those 
 get  about  3x3  so  they  don't  get  very 
 tall  they  don't  reproduce  they're  just 
 kind  of  a  really  cool  upright  look  in 
 the  garden  very  very  dark  and  and 
 dynamic  with  that  purple  and  then  a  fox 
 tail 
 agave  and  then  we  brought  in  a  couple 
 boulders  to  kind  of  um  you  know  just 
 kind  of  just  give  the  space  a  little  bit 
 of  that  that  Dazzle  right  here  and  tie 
 in  with  the  um  the  water  feature  and  the 
 boulders  that  we  chose  there  we  do  have 
 a  little  little  POA  clustering  of 
 margarite  um  vermil  ads  on  each 
 side  and  then  we  have  some  poor  poor 
 poor  Ruby  Reds  that  are  not  dead  but  the 
 rabbits  have  seemed  to  really  really 
 enjoy  eating  them  so  I'm  going  to  have 
 to  fight  the  rabbits  on  those  poor 
 guys  and  then  this  area  is  more  open  you 
 can  see  that  this  area  gets  a  great  deal 
 more  sun  so  we  did  the  sunling  plans 
 over  in  this  spot  so  we've  got  the 
 Panama  Rose  so  that  nice  three  three  and 
 A2  foot  um  grouping  that's  going  to  go 
 right  here  then  we've  got  fire  spikes 
 and  you  guys  probably  saw  my  fire  Spike 
 video  of  what  mine  look  like  these 
 unfortunately  are  not  in  bloom  yet  but 
 gosh  they  are  just  stunners  they're 
 going  to  be  they're  chunky  they're 
 strong  they're  they're  going  to  be 
 beautiful  in  the  garden  hummingbirds 
 love  them  and  butterflies  love  like  they 
 like  these  Panama  roses  and  the 
 butterflies  love  the  blue  blue  days  so 
 this  whole  grouping  right  here  is  going 
 to  be  butterfly  and  hummingbird  heaven 
 when  everything's  In  Bloom  so  these  blew 
 my  Minds  um  we've  got  a  little  bit  of  of 
 color  on  this  one  here  but  again  we're 
 fighting  the  rabbits  um  on  the  on  the 
 tasty  little  blue  my 
 Minds  so  as  we  move  up  we  have  a  third 
 and  final  Alfred  Palm  and  um  in  the  back 
 we've  got  some  nice  painters  and  they're 
 going  to  she's  going  to  let  those  fill 
 out  and  I'll  get  Bryce  to  slide  in  a  a 
 matured  picture  of  what  those  look  like 
 when  they're  grown  but  they  really  do 
 they're  they're  always  a  very  vertical 
 plant  but  they  really  do  um  thicken  up 
 and  connect  together  that's  why  I  plant 
 them  in  that  triangle  formation  like  you 
 see  because  they  will  be  a  nice  backdrop 
 of  that  golden  color  um  I  just  love  that 
 cool  crazy  messy  look  and  they're  going 
 to  do  a  nice  job  of  that  and  then  we  put 
 one  Brazilian  Red  clo  FL  directly  behind 
 the  tree  and  the  shadiest  part  that  way 
 it's  a  little  bit  protected  and  that's 
 going  to  fill  in  that 
 Gap  because  we  have  yellow  in  the  light 
 colors  back  there  I  chose  a  swath  of  the 
 blaze  copper  leaf  those  are  really  going 
 to  do  a  nice  job  of  connecting  together 
 becoming  real  nice  and  dense  in  that 
 spot  and  just  a  really  really  nice  thick 
 grouping  you're  not  going  to  see  much  of 
 the  mulch  in  this  spot  at  all  we've  uh 
 decorated  it  up  with  a  little  bit  of 
 pentas  along  this  this  front  and  just 
 ins  set  a  couple 
 Boulders  and  then  we  open  up  to  the  main 
 feature  here  so  we  have  two  kinds  of 
 stone  here  um  we  we  kept  the  stone  to 
 show  you  that  this  is  a  Vista  that  is 
 also  part  of  the  scating  section  over 
 there  she's  going  to  put  a  couple  chairs 
 here  um  this  is  going  to  be  an  area  that 
 she  she  already  enjoys  but  she's  going 
 to  really  really  enjoy  this  spot  for  for 
 sitting  out  and  and  and  watching  the 
 fountain  she  sent  me  pictures  of  it  lit 
 up  at  night  each  of  those  was  salt  have 
 lights  inside  I  swear  it  looks  like 
 they're  on  fire  out  here  fire  and  water 
 it  was  just  it's  just  so  stunning  so 
 this  is  a  seating  section  here  and  you 
 know  I  think  I  mentioned  this  in  a 
 previous  video  but  I  thought  I  would 
 again  this  rock  this  tesan  gry  Granite 
 which  you  guys  know  I  love  to  use 
 especially  on  Pathways  I  use  this  rock 
 because  it  does  this  when  you  can  walk 
 on  this  and  you  can  put  flagstone  on  it 
 but  you  can  actually  just  step  on  it  and 
 it  just  crushes  together  real  nice 
 because  it's  not  a  round  rock  it's  has 
 multiple  different  sizes  it  really  knits 
 together  really  compacts  really  really 
 well  and  it  comes  in  a  variety  of  sizes 
 if  you  don't  have  a  dog  and  you  don't 
 have  to  worry  about  it  being  um  dug  up 
 you  can  use  the  real  small  size  um 
 because  that  is  to  me  the  best  size  that 
 lays  the  tightest  um  but  I  worry  about 
 um  Joy  which  is  Sharon's  dog  because 
 she's  a  a  playful  beautiful  big  dog  and 
 so  I  was  worried  about  all  those  little 
 shards  you  know  end  up  missing  so  I 
 chose  the  middle  ground  so  this  this  is 
 the/  in  and  it's  um  it's  it's  it  holds 
 together  just  as  nicely  but  it  it's  um 
 it's  a  little  heavier  so  hopefully 
 that'll  help  her  kind  of  keep  it  more 
 intact  however  what  I  would  never  use  is 
 something  like  the  White  River  Rock 
 because  this  rock  is  pretty  difficult  to 
 walk  on  it  um  makes  tons  of  noise  it 
 sinks  even  though  this  is  the  bigger 
 rock  this  is  going  to  be  something  that 
 I  always  use  as  a  as  a  landscape  rock 
 it's  a  decorative  rock  it's  perfect  for 
 mixing  and  matching  you  know  kind  of 
 really  making  this  more  of  a  of  its  own 
 space  but  it's  definitely  not  something 
 you  would  want  to  walk  on  so  if  you  can 
 avoid  using  a  around  Rock  for  that  it's 
 a  super  super  big  difference  probably 
 not  picking  up  very  much  on  camera  but  I 
 promise  you  it's  just  so  much  easier  to 
 put  chairs  and  fire  pits  and  and  whatnot 
 on  this  rock  and  walk  on  it  versus  this 
 one  here  so  I  hope  that  U  hope  that 
 helps  you  guys  if  you're  you're  thinking 
 about  that  on  your  own  garden  um  but 
 this  little  swoop  this  little 
 sweep  is  turned  into  its  own  space  so 
 when  we  first  got  here  Sharon  was 
 telling  me  how  much  she  did  not  like 
 this  rise  in  um  in  elevation  how  this 
 burm  really  bugged  her  all  the  time  but 
 that's  what  the  builder  left  her  with 
 left  her  with  a  burm  that  leads  up  to 
 this  really  thin  BM  along  the  backside 
 here  and  they  did  that  for  drainage 
 reasons  they  wanted  everything  to  drain 
 to  a  low  spot  in  the  garden  so  it  left 
 this  a  Mucky  mess  which  is  a  part  of  the 
 reason  why  we  started  out  with  rock  rock 
 does  a  great  job  of  kind  of  really 
 drying  out  of  space  and  that's  what  it 
 did  here  however  we  still  needed  to 
 leave  a  a  a  low  spot  in  the  garden 
 because  we  didn't  want  to  change  the 
 elevation  we  didn't  want  to  really  Jack 
 with  any  of  that  to  make  sure  that  we're 
 not  putting  neighbors  or  anybody  off  so 
 um  so  we  kept  that  low  spot  that  was  the 
 original  low  spot  in  the  garden  that 
 literally  just  was  a  moldy  just  mess  um 
 there  is  a  um  tank  down  below  there  it 
 does  feed  out  into  the  into  the  garden 
 we  have  one  drain  that  goes  this  way  and 
 then  we  have  one  drain  that  goes  out  um 
 out  just  to  the  edge  of  the  fence  line 
 so  we've  gotten  the  water  away  from  the 
 house  we've  kept  this  elevation  and  then 
 we  created  on  this  burm  its  own  little 
 Vista  with  the  water  feature  and  a 
 little  plant  grouping  and  just  a  spot 
 that's  almost  like  it's  almost  like  a 
 little  pedestal  in  the  garden  I  just 
 love  how  this  um  it's  kind  of  like  the 
 crown  of  the  garden  it's  it's  a  perfect 
 little  ending  point  it's  a  spot  that  she 
 says  that  they  gravitate  to  with  she's 
 entertaining  all  the  time  so  I'm  I'm  so 
 glad  that  she's  enjoying  it  and  again  at 
 night  is  just  a  stunner  we  repurposed 
 her  coconut  palm  tree  that  you  see  in 
 the  back  there  we  put  it  in  the  back  to 
 kind  of  be  the  final  in  the  back  space 
 there  and  then  because  it  gave  us  some 
 shade  we  ended  up  um  using  some  um  Rojo 
 Congos  down  below  and  then  some  sunling 
 burm  milads  right  to  the 
 front  we  repurposed  a  couple  of  her  palm 
 trees  um  the  uh  thatch  Palm  here  it's 
 going  through  a  little  a  little  bit  of 
 transplant  shock  but  I  think  it's  going 
 to  be  okay  and  then  we've  got  a  a  thatch 
 Palm  over  there  that  we  reused  these 
 were  the  things  that  were  in  her  garden 
 that  were  still  looking  good  um  but  you 
 know  just  kind  of  needed  their  own  spot 
 so  we  amended  this  soil  like  crazy  and 
 everything  here  is  very  very  happy  so 
 I'm  really  really  really  pleased  with  it 
 to  go  back  to  this  water  feature  this  is 
 a  triple  Basalt  column  from  aquascapes 
 I'll  be  sure  to  put  the  link  down  below 
 it  is  a  100gal  reservoir  that  sits  below 
 the  ground  it  Circ  cul  Ates  water  from 
 that  Reservoir  up  into  individual  of 
 those  columns  inside  each  of  those 
 columns  uh  there  is  a  light  that  shines 
 nice  and  bright  at  night  so  it  looks 
 like  like  I  said  fire  and  water  which  is 
 so  cool  and  then  of  course  because  I 
 didn't  have  enough  Stone  options  in  a 
 small  space  I  ended  up  putting  the  um 
 Indian  Creek  Rock  right  there  so  that 
 Indian  Creek  rock  is  a  nice  round  rock 
 that  just  shows  off  water  and  I  thought 
 it  Blended  so  well  with  the  color  of  the 
 basalt  columns  so  I  think  it's  great 
 this  um  see  if  you  can  get  this 
 pry  this  um  piece  of  Driftwood  here  was 
 from  Sharon's  husband  he  had  found  it  in 
 the  keys  several  years  ago  and  um  it  was 
 in  the  garden  kind  of  off  to  the  side 
 and  I  was  like  I'm  going  to  use  that  I 
 just  don't  know  how  and  then  when  we 
 finally  started  seting  and  playing  with 
 it  it  became  the  Forefront  it  became  the 
 first  thing  that  you  saw  within  the 
 garden  and  we  kind  of  just  worked  around 
 it  so  if  you're  looking  straight  on  from 
 that  space  you  really  do  get  a  good 
 visual  of  how  that  plays  up  I  love 
 natural  elements  in  the  garden  and  I  was 
 telling  Sharon  that  once  um  we  put  some 
 osas  in  there  and  I'm  hoping  they're 
 going  to  climb  around  it  a  little  bit 
 but  once  we  get  a  little  bit  more  shade 
 in  this  sun  area  I  think  we  can  just 
 take  some  moss  and  start  growing  on 
 there  um  and  then  that  way  that  way  just 
 you  know  again  adds  that  natural  look  of 
 the 
 space 
 so  oh  I  did  forget  of  the  ice  plants 
 didn't  I  okay  this  is  a  ground  C  cover 
 that  I  don't  know  it  gets  underutilized 
 I  don't  know  why  this  is  a  fantastic 
 ground  cover  that  is  variegated  ice  it 
 blooms  that  beautiful  beautiful  pink 
 flower  um  this  plant  can  grow  in  a 
 succulent  garden  with  very  very  little 
 water  and  then  the  weird  thing  is  is  it 
 can  grow  if  you  just  take  the  the  soil 
 off  of  the  roots  and  you  put  it  in  um  a 
 pot  of  water  it'll  grow  in  that  space 
 too  I  have  it  growing  in  my  in  my  pond  I 
 have  it  growing  in  my  waterfall  and  I 
 have  it  growing  in  my  succulent  garden 
 and  I'm  astonished  with  its  versatility 
 it's  just  pretty  amazing  how  well  it 
 does  in  all  of  those  environments  um  so 
 if  there's  a  ground  cover  that  you're 
 looking  for  that  you  just  need  it  to  be 
 tough  um  the  only  thing  it  does  need  is 
 it  does  so  much  better  in  the  Sun  so  it 
 can  handle  full  sun  it  can  handle 
 partial  sun  but  really  besides  that  it 
 just  doesn't  doesn't  show  up  as  well  so 
 um  and  if  you  have  a  rock  garden  they 
 will  CL  climb  all  over  the  Rocks  which  I 
 love  because  sometimes  rock  can  be  too 
 much  so  having  some  soft  patches  of  that 
 it  comes  in  green  and  it  comes 
 variegated  so  you  can  use  it  either  way 
 and  I  I  just  think  it's  a  gorgeous  plant 
 to  to  work  with  so  but  I  uh  I  hope  that 
 you  guys  have  enjoyed  this  video  I  hope 
 you  have  a  sidey  guard  you're  ready  to 
 tackle  and  and  it  gives  you  some 
 inspiration  on  um  what  what  can  be  done 
 with  um  your  your  typical  basic 
 subdivision  sidey  because  I  I'm  I'm  I'm 
 learning  to  really  love  designing  these 
 I  just  think  that  they  they  they  they 
 show  up  so  just  a  little  Interruption 
 you  guys  I  thought  pop  over  to  the  other 
 side  and  share  with  you  real  quick  uh  a 
 few  of  my  favorite  pollinators  a  few 
 really  really  cool  butterfly  plants  that 
 um  we  did  for  Sharon  on  the  opposite 
 side  of  the  pool  deck  so  this  is  just 
 adjacent  to  just  where  we  were  and 
 Sharon  did  um  she  know  she  just  she 
 enjoys  you  can  tell  she  enjoys  sitting 
 down  in  her  space  she  really  enjoys  her 
 yard  so  being  able  to  see  the 
 butterflies  we  have  a  little  bit  of 
 butterfly  plants  over  there  but  over 
 here  the  garden  just  comes  alive  with 
 butterfly  plants  so  this  is  Al  ated  to 
 all  of  the  little  pollinators  it's  a 
 little  starter  space  I'll  slide  in  a 
 before  picture  not  a  very  big  area  but 
 we  were  able  to  get  in  a  a  nice  little 
 clustering  of  plants  we've  got  mixes  of 
 lantanas  here  this  Lantana  tree  is  just 
 adorable  it  is  so  cute  and  then  a  mixing 
 of  Lantana  just  down 
 below  and  then  um  of  course  the  blue  my 
 mindes  have  the  rabbits  have  made  their 
 way  over  here  but  these  are  blue  my 
 mindes  trailing  this 
 side  and  then  some 
 pentas  and  then  backdrop  with  some 
 Porter  weed  over  here  so  um  oh  look  see 
 evidence  look  at  the  butterflies  well 
 that 
 was  we  are  really  really  getting  a  lot 
 of  nice  color  here  and  it's  just  a  nice 
 little  area  for  for  her  to  enjoy  I  hope 
 that  maybe  a  little  bench  ends  up  here 
 Sharon  and  it  would  be  a  great  little 
 spot  just  to  sit  in  the  afternoon  and  um 
 you  know  sit  amongst  the  blooms  how  cool 
 is  that  and  there's  a  little  pop  out 
 over  there  Bryce  you  can  kind  of  see 
 that  this  is  pretty  much  your  typical 
 narrow  um  sidey  yard  section  so  there's 
 a  citrus  tree  in  the  middle  I  think  I 
 think  said  that  was  the  Myers  lemon 
 Myers  lemon  tree  and  then  we've  got  some 
 um  golden  shrimp  plants  and  some  more 
 pentas  popped  in  a  little  thalis  over 
 there  and  a  couple  little  daisies  so 
 it's  kind  of  a  just  a  nice  little  a 
 little  addition  to  um  to  her  other  side 
 section  this  is  this  is  definitely 
 allocated  to  really  um  enjoy  the 
 butterflies  oh  look  over  there  the 
 butterflies  and  the  birds  and  I  think 
 everybody  deserves  a  little  Nook  of  that 
 right  so  all  right  we'll  get  back  to  the 
 regular  video  I  just  wanted  to  pop  over 
 here  real  quick  because  I  have  a  little 
 ADD  and  I  wanted  to  make  sure  that  I  did 
 get  the  little  pollinated  videos  video 
 in  okay 
 oh 
 [Music]

---

 so  hey  you  guys  welcome  back  to  my 
 channel  so  today  we've  just  finished  up 
 a  new  project  and  I  pulled  out  the 
 camera  cuz  I  cannot  wait  to  share  it 
 with  you  turned  out  so  beautiful  and  I 
 think  it  answers  um  several  questions 
 that  I've  been  getting  a  lot  lately 
 about  Stone  so  stone  is  um  you  know  it's 
 it's  one  of  my  favorite  um  materials  to 
 work  with  in  the  garden  it  really  can 
 dice  up  and  really  kind  of  you  know  make 
 it  more  interesting  um  however  Stone  can 
 stress  out  a  number  of  tropical  plants 
 so  I  don't  use  it  um  unless  I'm  I'm 
 using  it  in  the  right  way  so  you  know 
 then  and  you  know  you  can  rent  it 
 throughout  the  whole  bed  and  I  know  a 
 lot  of  people  do  that  and  um  I  just 
 think  it  can  be  interesting  in  certain 
 areas  of  the  bed  in  certain  aspects  or 
 the  curves  or  or  small  sections  of  the 
 landscape  and  then  um  and  then  create  um 
 another  area  within  the  landscape  bed 
 for  m  only  and  that  might  be  for  things 
 like  copper  leaves  or  or  Brazilian  Red 
 cloaks  or  or  things  that  need  to  hold 
 moisture  a  little  bit  more  and  can't 
 handle  that  that  incredible  heat  that 
 stone  really  radiates  so  I  thought  that 
 this  job  might  be  a  great  one  to  share 
 with  you  guys  that  way  I  can  share  with 
 you  the  stone  that  we  chose  to  use  for 
 it  uh  funny  enough  and  this  one  is  not 
 deian  gry  Granite  so  um  there  is  a 
 couple  a  couple  different  Stone  options 
 I  guess  that  I  do  tend  to  work  with  but 
 I  hope  you  guys  like  these  just  as  much 
 we  did  mix  some  Stones  so  we  have  have  a 
 little  walkway  area  so  my  clients  can 
 use  for  their  trash  cans  and  then  we 
 have  just  a  nice  decorative  area  of 
 stone  and  then  we  have  mulch  where  we 
 really  need  it  so  I  hope  this  might  give 
 you  guys  some  ideas  I  think  this  works 
 super  well  for  front  yards  or  backyards 
 um  so  I  polish  it  in  the  front  with 
 stone  and  then  the  back  the  part's  in 
 the  back  so  you  know  it's  where  you  know 
 where  the  moisture  can  happen  so  I'm 
 going  to  flip  this  camera  around  share 
 with  you  the  plant  and  tree  choices  that 
 we  made  for  the  areas  and  then  I'll 
 slide  in  a  before  picture  so  you  guys 
 can  really  see  what  we  were  dealing  with 
 initially  I  want  to  thank  Tim  and 
 Crystal  for  letting  me  show  showcase 
 their  um  their  front  yard  um  I  know 
 they're  extremely  pleased  with  it  and  I 
 have  been  so  grateful  to  uh  work  with 
 them  they've  they've  really  we've  had 
 fun  with  making  some  changes  and 
 adapting  the  landscape  to  um  to  both  of 
 their  Styles  so  um  it's  it's  been  it's 
 been  a  great  project  so  uh  so  without 
 further  Ado  I  will  turn  this  around  and 
 share  with  you  guys  what  we 
 did  okay  so  here  we  are  so  as  I 
 mentioned  it  is  not  a  full  heavy 
 landscaping  like  you  would  expect  from 
 me  this  is  more  of  a  clean  line  type  of 
 landscaping  I  would  say  it's  a  little 
 more  contemporary  definitely  has  a 
 tropical  flare  but  more  in  the  clean 
 lines  um  paired  back  uh  type  of  front 
 yard  landscaping  that  I  do  like  to  do 
 from  time  to  time  so  um  that  being  said 
 let  me  let  me  share  with  you  quickly  the 
 back  uh  plant  material  that's  going  to 
 really  kind  of  give  us  some  of  that 
 fullness  that  you  guys  um  come  to  expect 
 from  my  designs  so  right  here  these  are 
 7  gallons  so  they're  still  pretty  small 
 but  there's  three  a  trio  of  Brazilian 
 Red  cloaks  back  there  and  as  you  guys 
 know  Brazilian  Red  cloaks  are  going  to 
 get  into  that  7  to  8T  range  so  they're 
 going  to  completely  engulf  this  corner 
 behind  this  giant  palm  tree  here  this  is 
 an  existing  fox  tail  that  was  here  and 
 so  I  kind  of  need  something  with  some 
 depth  back  there  to  really  give  the 
 front  of  the  landscape  a  bit  of  Bounce 
 you  know  to  give  it  you  know  to  give  it 
 a  barrier  back  there  so  it  shows  off 
 what  we  did  here  in  the 
 front  this  is  um  what  I  me  here  with  the 
 mulch  so  Brazilian  Red  cloaks  like  a 
 little  bit  more  moisture  than  say  an 
 Agave  or  or  a  foxtail  fern  they're  going 
 to  like  to  be  um  they  they  like  wet  feet 
 a  little  bit  more  than  um  than  than  any 
 of  these  plants  so  putting  them  in  stone 
 can  give  them  more  stress  um  if  they're 
 not  that  they  don't  have  a  bubbler 
 irrigation  system  really  hitting  those 
 areas  nice  and  nice  and  well  so  what  we 
 have  here  is  we've  got  good  Irrigation 
 in  the  back  and  we've  got  Brazilian  Red 
 cloaks  there  and  curly  dwarf  javel  white 
 copper  leaves  back  here  so  these  are 
 going  to  be  a  nice  big  backdrop  here 
 along  the  foundation  of  the  house  I'm 
 not  one  to  really  like  the  lower  parts 
 of  the  house  showing  so  I  do  like 
 something  that's  going  to  get  about  3 
 and  1/2t  tall  and  these  are  going  to 
 really  do  that  job  as  a  great  colorful 
 border  and  then  of  course  the  pygmy  date 
 palm  acts  as  the  dead  center  piece  for 
 underneath  all  of  these  giant  column 
 like  trees  that  were  established  here  so 
 I  think  it  gives  is  a  nice  a  nice 
 barrier  a  nice  bit  of  impact  between 
 those  two  windows  and  then  flanked  on 
 each  side  is  the  false 
 agave  down  below  is  the  little 
 variegated  Americana  Agave  dappled  in 
 with  um  some  bads  just  to  kind  of  give 
 us  a  little  bit  of  of  um  of  Interest 
 down  there  um  down  here  these  are  uh 
 Carissa  boxwood  I  chose  them  because 
 they're  tough  tough  tough  they  stay  nice 
 and  small  they  are  what  we  call  our 
 typical  Florida  box  wood  or  Emerald 
 blankets  they  stay  low  really  kind  of 
 creep  along  but  don't  outgrow  their  area 
 so  you  can  keep  them  maintained  in  a 
 little  blotch  of  green  right  there  so  I 
 just  kind  of  have  them  in  key  little 
 areas  around  the  boulders  and  I'd  love 
 to  let  them  grow  right  to  the  boulders 
 and  then  we'll  keep  them  the  boulders 
 trimmed  so  that  way  you've  got  that 
 little  blotch  of  green  that  really 
 softens  the  stone  now  I  personally  like 
 the  way  Stone  and  mulch  look  together  I 
 love  the  curves  and  I'll  let  you  kind  of 
 get  a  better  see  if  I  can  get  a  better 
 angle  the  Shadows  are  to  come  out  cuz 
 it's  late  in  the  evening  but  I  have  a 
 very  busy  day  tomorrow  and  I  wanted  to 
 try  to  get  this  out  to  you 
 guys 
 today  but  I  really  do  like  how  that 
 curves  and  you  can  see  that  I  chose  the 
 stone  in  all  of  the  areas  that's  near 
 the  um  pavers  because  this  is  a 
 significant  roof  line  and  when  I  first 
 came  here  to  do  a  consultation  there  was 
 Mulch  and  there  wasn't  even  much  mulch 
 in  the  beds  it  was  pretty  much  just 
 mainly  on  the  on  the  walkway  so  so  I 
 realized  that  that  was  going  to  be  a 
 problem  in  the  future  so  what  we  did  is 
 we  really  dropped  these  beds  down  pretty 
 significantly  and  in  depth  so  that  way 
 we  took  out  tons  of  roots  and  tons  and 
 tons  of  old  soil  and  old  mulch  and  then 
 we  um  we  um  brought  in  our  material  our 
 new  soil  and  of  course  our  Mulch  and  our 
 and  our  Stone  so  um  that  that  is  really 
 going  to  help  kind  of  keep  everything  in 
 place  but  as  it  rains  it's  going  to  just 
 keep  this  nice  clean  little  area  right 
 by  the  front  and  then  you  can  see  we 
 Edge  the  mulch  from  The  Rock  so  that  way 
 there  is  a  nice  Define  line  and  then  of 
 course  we  mulched  again  the  um  or  excuse 
 me  we  edged  again  the  edging  from  The 
 Rock  to  the  side  so  um  that  way 
 everything  is  just  really  Compact  and 
 nice  and 
 tidy  with  the 
 stone  so  the  Crystal  had  these  fantastic 
 Planters  are  they  not  cool  I  just  love 
 that  bulb  is  round  base  it's  just  so  fun 
 um  and  as  she  she  loves  that 
 contemporary  design  so  she  had  those  and 
 she  think  she  had  some  buvia  trellises 
 um  in  them  that  were  just  really 
 struggling  and  then  she  had  it  placed  in 
 the  landscape  um  so  it  wasn't  really 
 just  wasn't  really  taking  off  but  she 
 really  did  like  the  Planters  and  I  think 
 Tim  decided  to  salvage  them  and  just  say 
 do  something  with  them  and  I  think 
 they're  in  the  perfect  spot  now  I  don't 
 know  you  guys  have  to  tell  me  what  you 
 think  but  those  U  verad  imperialis  are 
 going  to  become  3x3  and  absolutely 
 gorgeous  when  they  hit  that  higher  range 
 and  really  widen  out  they're  just  going 
 to  be  fantastic  um  and  I  think  this 
 walkway  is  plenty  big  enough  to 
 accommodate  that  my  probably  my  husband 
 wouldn't  say  so  he  likes  to  keep  plants 
 and  everything  really  away  from  the 
 walkways  but  I  don't  know  I'm  all  in 
 your  face  and  I  just  love  I  love  to  have 
 them  set  right  on  those  columns  so  I 
 think  they're  going  to  do  a  lovely  job 
 of  that  we  do  have  a  blueberry  tree 
 there  and  I'd  love  that  blueberry  tree 
 to  continue  growing  up  that's  a  Japanese 
 blueberry  tree  and  I'd  love  for  it  to 
 get  6  or  8T  tall  right  in  this  range 
 just  to  give  this  a  little  bit  more 
 backing  to  give  it  a  little  bit  more  ump 
 because  this  bed  is  pretty  pretty  um 
 clean  and  pretty  simple  compared  to 
 where  this  bed  has  um  quite  a  bit  more 
 punch  to  it  with  um  the  bmil  ads  and 
 it's  just  your  draws  your  eye  a  lot  more 
 so  I  really  did  think  that  this  area 
 need  a  little  bit  more  weight  to  to  make 
 that  happen  and  I  was  telling  Crystal 
 and  Tim  that  if  they  brought  in  a  couple 
 hanging  baskets  and  and  um  and  set  them 
 there  um  you  can  do  them  just  side  by 
 side  so  it  stays  real  contemporary  and 
 then  just  have  maybe  some  silver  or  some 
 um  Silver  Falls  kind  of  falling  down  as 
 a  Vine  in  there  and  that  would  be  lovely 
 and  then  one  or  two  now  these  I  would 
 stagger  one  Higher  One  lower  but  I  think 
 that  would  be  a  nice  look  there 
 too  um  right  on  each  wall  as  you  come  in 
 I  have  giant  Apostle  Iris  I  love  giant 
 apostal  Iris  I  love  what  they  offer  is 
 that  nice  vertical  structure  in  the 
 garden  I  just  think  that  they're  really 
 really  cool  really  really  contemporary 
 for  a  tropical  landscape  and  I  love  that 
 flat  fan  look  I  mean  they  just  look  like 
 hands  standing  there  they  really  do  give 
 the  appearance  of  a  very 
 flat  Iris  they  do  bloom  a  purple  flower 
 but  they  only  bloom  3  months  a  year  so 
 you  really  this  is  the  their  real  beauty 
 is  is  this  vertical  um  look  to  them  I 
 use  them  kind  of  like  people  use  grasses 
 I'm  just  not  a  fan  of  grasses  cuz  they 
 get  so  messy  so  easy  and  these  are  just 
 so  easy  to  keep  up  with  so  they're  my 
 go-to  but  the  purple  Bloom  those  3 
 months  a  year  are  showstoppers 
 absolutely  stunning  they  remind  me  of  an 
 organ  Bloom  they're  just 
 gorgeous  so  and  then  just  down  below 
 we've  got  um  fox  tail  fronts  um  I  did 
 not  go  crazy  with  the  fox  tail  ferns  I 
 have  a  very  thin  line  of  them  here  and 
 then  um  you  know  just  kind  of  helped  to 
 did  a  little  cluster  here  and  then  kept 
 more  of  a  straight 
 line  coming  in  coming  up  to  the  entrance 
 way  and  then  more  Boulders  I  just  love 
 these  little  little  touches  of  Boulders 
 these  are  not  big  boulders  you  guys  but 
 I  really  do  think  they're  cool  in  a 
 landscape  I  just  I  think  that  they  add 
 another  whole  another  element  a  whole 
 another  look  in  the  garden  then  I've  got 
 some  um  some  partial  sun  burm  milads 
 right  here  um  these  are  NEOS  and  they're 
 mix  of  margarite  and  sexy  pink  and  they 
 just  are  going  to  do  super  well  in  this 
 little  this  little  spot  right  here 
 underneath  the  silver 
 odor  now  this  silver  odorata  is  going  to 
 completely  consume  this  spot  it's  going 
 to  get  about  about  2T  taller  so  it's 
 really  going  to  get  in  this  space  and 
 then  stop  and  then  it's  going  to  get 
 wider  so  it'll  probably  go  to  each  end 
 of  the  the  edging  there  but  it  becomes  a 
 big  beautiful  silver  just  Fountain  spray 
 of  a  plant  I  just  just  love 
 [Music] 
 them  and  then  this  area  was  kind  of  um  I 
 guess  was  kind  of  just  forgotten  about 
 over  here  and 
 they  um  when  we  talked  about  this  space 
 um  Crystal  really  wanted  to  see  a  green 
 Agave  here  so  we  incorporated  a  really 
 nice  upright  feature  in  the  garden  um 
 these  roots  were  incredible  with  this 
 gigantic  fox  tail  that's  here  um  so  we 
 really  did  a  good  job  of  or  the  guys  I 
 could  say  cuz  I  didn't  do  any  digging 
 but  my  guys  did  a  fantastic  job  of 
 angling  this  so  that  way  we  can  get  the 
 plant  material  in  place  and  get  some 
 decent  soil  in  there  um  but  I  think  it 
 turned  out  so  so  lovely  the  fox  tail 
 ferns  to  the  back  as  you  know  we're 
 going  to  just  kind  of  get  that  nice 
 little  fuzzy  2  and  1/2t  Tall  range  in 
 that  area  and  they'll  um  there'll  be  a 
 great  great  backdrop  to  the  whole 
 landscape  and  then  right  swooping  just 
 kind  of  a  nice  curve  right  here  is  going 
 to  be  the  little  Ruby  Reds  and  those  are 
 going  to  be  right  now  they're  in  the 
 purple  tone  but  during  the  summer  months 
 they  get  more  more  of  a  burgundy  tone  so 
 it's  going  to  be  green  with  this  deep 
 deep  true  color  color  on  this  bright 
 light  colored  Stone  and  then  we  topped 
 it  off  with  three  Green  Island  Ficus  so 
 that  way  that  that  Center  really  pops 
 once  all  these  greens  come  together  so 
 this  will  connect  I  know  it  doesn't  look 
 like  it  right  now  but  these  will  be  a 
 nice  shiny  little  collection  here  they 
 they're  real  proper  real  maintained  real 
 paired  back  little  planting  so  they'll 
 almost  be  a  little  rounded  little  group 
 right  here  that'll  be  kind  of  almost 
 like  a  little  control  Point  like  a  hedge 
 cuz  I  wasn't  really  in  love  with  this 
 point  so  we  softened  it  with  some  side 
 but  we  needed  to  keep  it  deep  enough  to 
 get  away  from  the  root  system  of  the  of 
 the  bed  and  and  to  make  it  scale  and 
 make  sense  with  this  bed  over  here  so  um 
 so  the  best  thing  I  could  think  of  is 
 really  to  add  a  green  ending  point  and 
 then  a  swath  of  some  color  then 
 something  vertical  pop  in  a  few  Boulders 
 and  then  of  course  the  um  the  the  lovely 
 little  the  um  lovely  little  fox  tail 
 ferns  um  we  do  have  some  ccia  back  there 
 that  are  going  to  grow  in  and  kind  of 
 become  our  coverage  but  um  this  area 
 right  here  is  a  storage  section  and  they 
 really  wanted  to  be  able  to  put  the 
 trash  cans  back  there  so  um  this  is 
 going  to  be  great  being  able  to  roll 
 your  trash  cans  up  and  they're  all 
 tucked  back  there  nice  and  neat  and  I'm 
 going  to  answer  this  question  um  about 
 rock  and  the  proper  Rock  to  use  for 
 Pathways  walkways  um  little  patio  areas 
 so  as  much  as  I  love  this  Stone  I 
 commonly  get  people  to  ask  could  we  do 
 this  Stone  as  you  know  a  nice  little 
 seating  section  and  you  absolutely  can 
 but  I'm  going  to  step  on  this  Stone  and 
 I  hope  it  comes  across  on  camera  and  you 
 guys  I  mean  this  is  a  Rolling  Rock  it's 
 really  really  moves  and  it  really  I 
 really  sink  when  I  get  into  this  now  I'm 
 going  to  come  off  of  this  rock  and  then 
 I'm  going  to  step  on  this 
 rock  I  hope  that  was  quiet  enough  for 
 you  to  see  but  I  am  really  really  kind 
 of 
 keeping  now  I'm  going  to  go  back  to  the 
 other 
 one  yeah  it's  just  it's  such  a  huge 
 difference  this  this  Ro  and  you  kind  of 
 see  see  look  at  those  indents  that  I  put 
 in  just  stepping  down  on  that  rock  and 
 then  you  see  none  of  that  in  this  Rock 
 This  Rock  stays  nice  and  compact  now 
 this  is  not  my  tahan  gray  Granite  um 
 this  rock  does  go  together  pairs  with 
 this  coloring  so  much  nicer  um  but  this 
 rock  is  my  secondary  option  tahan  grey 
 Granite  packs  a  little  bit  better 
 because  it  does  not  have  any  of  the 
 Round  Rock  This  has  a  few  pieces  of 
 Round  Rock  mixed  with  with  um  more  of  a 
 pointy  um  Jagged  Edge  um  but  this  rock 
 is  a  great  um  option  too  or  if  you're 
 going  to  do  a  fire  pit  area  and  there's 
 going  to  be  you  know  some  bare  feed  or 
 things  like  that  this  is  a  little  bit 
 softer  and  easier  to  walk  on  than  the 
 tesan  gry  granite  so  this  is  called 
 Indian  Creek  Rock  and  it  is  a  cool 
 looking  let  me  see  if  I  can  get  down 
 here  without  the  gimbal  going  nuts  and 
 it  is  a  nice  nice  colored  gray  rock  and 
 it's  a  lot  of  mixed  pieces  and  that's 
 what  really  gives  you  that  more  compact 
 feel  because  once  it  once  it  rains  a  few 
 rains  it'll  compact  even  more  where  this 
 will  always  roll  on  you  so  this  is  a 
 beautiful  landscape  rock  but  not  what 
 you  want  to  use  for  pads  or  Pathways  so 
 well  you  guys  thanks  for  sharing  a  few 
 minutes  with  me  I  hope  that  answers  some 
 of  your  questions  on  Stone  versus  mulch 
 versus  you  know  what  what  should  I  do  in 
 my  beds  and  should  I  mix  them  should  I 
 invest  the  money  and  sewn  and  once  and 
 done  and  it's  you  know  you  don't  have  to 
 worry  about  REM  mulching  um  this  is  a 
 great  thing  to  do  now  Chris  uh  Crystal 
 and  Tim  will  only  need  to  touch  up  those 
 front  edges  of  mulch  once  all  of  their 
 Landscaping  is  in  so  instead  of  reming 
 everything  like  you  would  in  a  normal 
 bed  that's  more  open  I  let  all  of  the 
 crazy  in  the  back  which  is  all  the 
 fluffy  the  bigger  material  that's  really 
 going  to  grow  in  in  the  back  and  so 
 those  areas  are  going  to  get  you're 
 going  to  see  very  little  mulch  more  just 
 along  the  edges  and  along  the  corners  um 
 just  the  foundation  sections  um  along 
 the  edges  is  all  you're  really  going  to 
 have  to  mulch  so  maybe  maybe  10  bags  a 
 year  at  most  for  this  space  so  um  it's 
 really  it's  a  really  easy  way  to  to  do 
 it  and  not  have  to  not  have  to  rock  your 
 whole  area  cuz  this  would  be  an  extra 
 maybe  yard  and  a  half  two  yards  more  if 
 we  were  to  use  Rock  everywhere  so  mulch 
 is  a  fantastic  alternative  and  it  does  a 
 nice 
 job  of  giving  you  some  interest  in  the 
 garden  all  right  you  guys  I  will  see  you 
 in  the  next  video 
 [Music]

---

 hey  you  guys  welcome  back  to  video  13 
 this  is  Garden  Tour  13  lucky  number  13 
 here  we  go  um  this  is  going  to  be  a  um  a 
 tour  pretty  much  about  landscape 
 buffers  well  hey  you  guys  so  we  decided 
 to  add  in  tour  14  to  today's  video  so  it 
 is  also  on  the  same  property  it's 
 Frankie's  sidey  yard  buffer  she's  on  a 
 big  corner  lot  so  it  is  a  nice  layered 
 buffer  for  um  kind  of  the  roadway 
 planting  it's  going  to  buffer  her  pool 
 area  and  her  whole  backyard  space  so  I 
 thought  you  guys  might  enjoy  it  too  so 
 we  decided  to  pop  it  into  today's  video 
 um  you'll  have  to  let  me  know  what  you 
 think  but  before  um  before  you  get  back 
 to  the  video  please  like  And  subscribe 
 and  I  will  see  you  in  the  very  next  one 
 take  care  you 
 guys  um  this  particular  lot  um  is  a 
 pretty  good  siiz  lot  for  a  Florida  uh 
 lot  we're  in  Palm  Bay  Florida  um  but 
 privacy  buffers  are  important  to  more 
 and  more  of  us  especially  the  more 
 people  move  to  Florida  we  have  the 
 benefit  of  a  beautiful  sunshine  but  then 
 we've  got  the  negative  of  of  having  just 
 generally  small  Lots  so  having  a  little 
 bit  of  privacy  um  with  some  tropical 
 plantin  and  some  foliage  and  and  just 
 kind  of  creating  buffers  has  been  a  big 
 part  of  my  job  over  the  last  few  years 
 so  I  thought  I'd  do  a  video  showcasing 
 one  of  them  um  this  lot  or  this  home  is 
 um  owned  by  Francis  thank  you  Francis 
 Brunner  for  allowing  me  to  do  a  uh 
 Garden  Tour  here  Francis  found  us  on 
 YouTube  a  couple  years  ago  so  we've  been 
 doing  some  Landscapes  throughout  her 
 property  over  the  last  couple  years  and 
 uh  this  is  just  one  one  feature  that  um 
 we've  done  for  her  so  um  but  I  I  thought 
 it  was  important  to  do  this  because  it 
 has  a  couple  a  couple  of  issues  when  she 
 bought  this  lot  it's  on  a  slope  um  so 
 the  grade  is  really  really  tough  to  work 
 with  and  then  um  obviously  the  soil  is 
 really  really  tough  in  palmbay  a  lot  of 
 the  soil  is  moral  so  we  had  to  do  a  lot 
 of  good  soil  mix  in  order  to  make  the 
 trees  and  plants  healthy  um  Within  the 
 garden  so  I  think  that  the  combination 
 has  come  out  great  and  things  are  doing 
 super  super  well  so  um  so  yeah  so  I 
 cannot  wait  to  share  that  with  you  I 
 will  get  Bryce  to  slide  in  a  before 
 picture  on  this  house  so  that  way  you 
 guys  can  see  kind  of  the  overall  change 
 and  and  look  of  the  space  and  how  much 
 um  how  much  it's  how  much  it's  involved 
 so  but  let's  start  so  this  is  um  if  you 
 look  at  from  the  roadside  here  this  is 
 the  driveway  area  so  we  what  we  did  is 
 we  took  out  her  concrete  and  then  we 
 enlarged  it  with  a  um  a  nice  paper 
 overlay  pad  here  and  then  widened  it  out 
 and  then  brought  it  over  to  her  entrance 
 of  her  gate  and  you  can  really  see  that 
 grade  shift  when  you  see  this  retaining 
 wall  I  mean  that's  in  order  to  make  that 
 level  that  was  a  pretty  steep  steep  um 
 retaining  wall  that  had  to  go  in  we  do 
 have  a  future  plan  to  put  in  a  water 
 feature  in  this  little  area  right  here 
 that's  the  reason  why  we  kept  the  grass 
 here  and  we're  just  going  to  have  it 
 kind  of  come  down  and  then  taper  right 
 into  this  area  so  that  way  from  the 
 roadside  she's  going  to  get  that 
 beautiful  impact  of  of  plantings  on  this 
 side  and  Islands  on  this  side  and  then 
 that  water  feature  on  this  side  so 
 that'll  be  a  fun  a  fun  project  to  do  but 
 the  real  um  buffering  starts  here  so  um 
 there  is  a  house  directly  across  from 
 her  um  here  and  as  she  enjoys  sitting 
 and  in  in  in  the  little  her  little 
 Courtyard  area  there  um  she  really 
 wanted  to  have  this  pretty  much  as  a 
 pretty  solid  buffer  so  what  we  started 
 with  is  the  k  IA  is  going  to  become  our 
 border  and  as  you  guys  know  what  Kia  do 
 they're  going  to  get  6  to  8T  tall  and 
 really  kind  of  create  a  wall  back  there 
 now  Palm  Bay  has  um  their  um  their  zones 
 will  not  or  their  their  County  codes 
 will  not  allow  her  to  do  a  fence  taller 
 than  the  current  fence  so  she  could  do 
 it  with  plant  material  but  um  not  a 
 fence  unfortunately  so  we're  going  to 
 allow  the  Kia  to  become  that  green  wall 
 fence 
 there  and  just  so  we  just  don't  have 
 just  a  hedge  by  itself  we  brought  in 
 some  beautiful  Travelers  Palms  now  these 
 are  flat  fan  Travelers  Palms  I  love  the 
 look  of  those  I  just  think  they're  just 
 such  a  stunner  you  see  them  as  soon  as 
 you  come  around  the  corner  um  coming  to 
 her  house  I  just  think  they're  just 
 they're  so  remarkable  and  they're  going 
 to  get  you  know  30  foot  tall  so  they 
 will  be  the  focal  point  they  will  be  a 
 fantastic  backdrop  as  they  do  that  and 
 as  they  they  they  grow  bigger  and  bigger 
 that  cool  center  will  become  more  and 
 more  Forefront  so  that'll  be  a  big  view 
 line  as  you  come  come  around  the  corner 
 and  then  I  know  this  is  a  Florida 
 favorite  I  see  this  often  and  have  this 
 is  a  tree  that  was  used  commonly  as  I 
 grew  up  um  here  in  Florida  but  this  is 
 the  Weeping  bottle  brush  tree  I  just 
 love  their  messy  hair  and  that  just  that 
 that  overflow  of  of  leaves  and  this  is  a 
 great  environment  for 
 those  and  I  think  when  they're 
 fertilized  um  they're  they're  just  kept 
 very  very  healthy  it  was  so  much  color 
 and  that  gives  her  color  year  round  so 
 it's  been  a  fantastic  tree  and  we  have  a 
 clustering  of  two  here  and  two  on  this 
 side  so  they'll  kind  of  hammock  together 
 and  they  will  do  that  eventually  once 
 that  traveler's  Palm  is  nice  and  tall  in 
 the  backdrop  so  you  don't  lose  that 
 traveler's  Palm  as  as  a  layer  so  that's 
 always  going  to  be  our  final  height 
 layer  in  the  back  the  Traveler's  palms 
 and  then  our  secondary  layer  are  going 
 to  be  these  bottle  brush  trees  and  then 
 we're  going  to  have  the  backdrop  of  the 
 green  cusia  and  then  that  allows  us  to 
 have  a  bit  of  color  in  the  front  with 
 these  um  these  lovely  lovely  Oleanders 
 so  these  are  the  light  pink  Oleanders  so 
 these  are  really  I  just  I'm  the  salmon 
 go  grow  a  little  bit  taller  but  my 
 favorite  are  these  light  delicate 
 pinks  I  love  their  Bloom  they  can  handle 
 salty  conditions  they  can  handle  windy 
 areas  they  can  handle  um  tough  soil  they 
 do  need  good  drainage  but  that's  about 
 it  so  they  can  really  really  put  up  with 
 a  lot 
 the  only  negative  I've  ever  come  across 
 with  the  Oleanders  are  obviously  they 
 are  poisonous  to  to  dogs  so  you  wouldn't 
 want  to  have  puppies  around  who  would 
 chew  and  eat  maybe  ingest  these  any  way 
 and  um  also  you  can  get  the  caterpillars 
 um  during  that  time  of  the  year  but 
 spraying  them  with  an  insecticide  really 
 does  do  a  good  job  of  keeping  those  at 
 Bay  so  I  and  and  I  spray  mine  every  just 
 every  once  in  a  while  so  a  couple  times 
 a  year  and  it's  worth  it  and  for  the 
 blooms  that  you  get  and  the  color  that 
 you  get  I  do  try  to  isolate  them  into 
 one  area  so  it's  really  easy  to  maintain 
 them  so  that's  we've  got  them  here  in 
 her  Garden  in  this  one  specific  area  and 
 that's  it  um  and  then  because  you  guys 
 know  how  I  feel  about  the  blaze  CPP  rela 
 we've  got  the  blaze  CPP  relaf  clustering 
 on  that  side  and  yet  again  on  this  side 
 just  to  give  us  some 
 impact  now  in  this  space  we  did  choose 
 two  different  colored  stones  we  have  the 
 um  tahan  gray  Granite  the  large  variety 
 and  then  the  back  we  have  the  white  uh 
 River 
 Rock  and  we  mainly  Incorporated  the 
 White  River  Rock  because  it  was  part  of 
 the  first  phase  of  the  Landscaping  so 
 she  definitely  wanted  to  feel  like 
 everything  had  a  theme  and  it  followed 
 through  one  into  the  other  so  we  didn't 
 want  to  introduce  a  new  colored  Rock 
 without  kind  of  you  know  paying  homage 
 to  the  other  colored  rocks  so  so  yeah 
 and  then  this  was  an  existing  um 
 Sylvester  palm  it's  it  struggled  really 
 really  bad  when  we  first  got  here  um  um 
 and  but  I  think  it  was  worth  keeping  so 
 we  did  transplant  it  and  been  trying  to 
 get  it  back  to  health  this  last  couple 
 years  it's  still  struggling  a  bit  but  it 
 is  doing  better  than  it  was 
 so  so  this  area  here  you  can  see 
 how  how  well  the  papers  have  turned  out 
 Bryce  if  you  kind  of  look  down  that  way 
 I  really  do  love  how  how  we  worked  with 
 the  grade  shift  and  grade  change  here  so 
 we  just  kind  of  outlined  these  two  sides 
 and  then  did  a  little  bit  of  a  popup 
 there  and  kind  of  created  a  little  patio 
 seating  section  there  with  um  a  fountain 
 feature  there  and  that's  coming  through 
 um  really  really  nice  so  but  we're  going 
 to  now  go  to  the  other  side  and  show  you 
 the  buffers  there  so  follow  me  you  said 
 this  was  my  romantic  spot  it  is  it  so  is 
 it's  so  Charming  I  love  it  I  sit  out 
 here  sometimes  I'm  talking  on  the  phone 
 drinking  my  coffee  I  sit  out  here  I  love 
 it  it's  very 
 Breezy  um  and  they  can't  see  me  yeah  I 
 do  feel  like  we're  in  like  a  little  Cove 
 right  here  that's  why  I  love  this  um  the 
 Kia  here  it  looks  beautiful  and  it's 
 growing  and  I  don't  want  them  to  cut  it 
 this  is  why  we're  friends  cuz  we  both 
 like  this  whole  Alice  and  Wonderland 
 thing  okay  so  back  to  you  guys  so  I  am 
 here  with  the  lady  of  the  hour  we  just 
 got  into  tour  her  beautiful  beautiful 
 yard  um  and  it's  a  work  in  progress  of 
 course  we're  working  our  way  all  all  the 
 way  around  the  yard  so  we've  worked 
 together  for  about  a  year  and  a  half  now 
 and  um  we've  done  project  after  project 
 and  we're  getting  ready  to  tackle  the 
 backyard  so  you  guys  just  wait  it's 
 going  to  be  amazing  um  but  Francis 
 wanted  to  share  with  you  kind  of  how  she 
 um  she  came  about  finding  us  you  know 
 like  what  her  first  experience  was  we 
 were  not  her  first  landscaper  to  work 
 with  in  the  area  she  is  a  retired  NYPD 
 police  officer  tough  as  nails  and  and  um 
 she  um  she  kind  of  knew  what  she  wanted 
 but  even  when  you  know  what  you  want 
 sometimes  um  sometimes  it's  kind  of  hard 
 to  kind  of  hard  to  to  deal  with  new 
 people  in  a  new  place  and  would  you  mind 
 sharing  with  the  with  our  gardening 
 friends  what  um  you  know  kind  of  kind  of 
 how  how  that  all  came  to  be  okay  well  I 
 I  was  new  in  the  area  um  I  basically 
 moved  here  after  I  retired  and  my  mom 
 lives  right  across  the  street  which  is 
 why  I  chose  this  specific  location  um 
 and  I  didn't  know  anyone  here  so  I  hired 
 um  the  first  landscaper  that  actually 
 answered  my  phone  call  and  we  started 
 working  together  and  um 
 he  I  explained  to  him  what  I  was  looking 
 for  and  he  said  he  could  deliver  it  but 
 for  some  reason  our  styles  were  not 
 driving  um  he  had  a  different  idea  it's 
 very  important  to  be  very  transparent 
 and  very  clear  as  to  what  you  want  but 
 since  I  was  new  to  the  area  and  this  was 
 my  my  first  experience  creating  Gardens 
 I  didn't  know  how  to  explain  that  I 
 wanted  Gardens  I  just  said  I  wanted 
 landscaping  and  he  went  with  what  he 
 knew  and  we  kind  of  were  not  Jing  we 
 were  not  on  the  same  page  which  happens 
 so  often  yeah  yes  he  was  a  good 
 landscaper  he  just  wasn't  the  the  the 
 good  he  just  wasn't  the  right  one  for  me 
 so  which  made  me  after  my  first 
 landscape  experience  I  went  on  a  search 
 on  YouTube  and  I  kind  of  put  more 
 thought  into  it  and  I  started  searching 
 for  people  who  were  more  my  style  and 
 when  I  came  across  your  videos  not  only 
 did  I  like  your  style  of  your 
 Landscaping  I  also  you  are  very 
 charismatic  a  thank  you  so  I  figured  hey 
 let  me  call  her  and  give  her  a  shot  and 
 we've  been  working  together  every  ever 
 since  we  we  our  our  styles  were  the  same 
 and  I  tend  to  go  a  little  a  little  over 
 the  top  sometimes  and  you  reel  me  in 
 sometimes  we  go  overboard  anyway 
 sometimes  you  always  try  to  keep  me  out 
 I'm  the  one  that  has  a  problem  with 
 budgets  I  do  I  do  I'm  the  realistic  one 
 of  this  group  you  guys  trust  trust  us 
 but  we  found  we  we  found  um  an  area 
 Common  Ground  a  good  common  ground  and 
 um  our  Styles  combined  and  we  come  up 
 with  some  well  you  have  come  up  with 
 some  beautiful  gardens  I'm  on  my  land 
 thank  you  thank  you  piece  of  property  my 
 little  piece  of  property  and  she's 
 making  it  magical  she  really  does  that's 
 one  thing  I  love  about  Francis  is  that 
 when  we  when  we  first  met  she  um  she 
 pretty  much  told  me  um  we're  working 
 together  I  saw  you  on  YouTube  I  like 
 your  videos  this  is  my  style  and  and  I 
 was  like  okay  well  that  that's  great  so 
 um  so  we  we  did  she  told  me  exactly  what 
 she  was  looking  for  I  think  you  were 
 really  um  you  you're  pretty  prepared  for 
 me  you  know  you  kind  of  really  gave  me 
 some  insights  of  um  the  the  kind  of 
 gardens  you  wanted  the  showpiece  you 
 wanted  this  area  to  really  pop  out  at 
 you  you  wanted  this  space  to  to  do  this 
 and  that  space  to  do  that  and  and  I  felt 
 like  you  gave  me  really  really  good 
 information  and  that's  kind  of  what  I 
 wanted  to  share  with  you  guys  um  today 
 is  because  if  you're  going  to  hire  a 
 landscape  contractor  in  your  future 
 whatever  part  of  the  world  that  you're 
 in  Pick  10  photos  of  what  you  love 
 things  that  just  really  speak  to  you 
 things  that  really  kind  of  just  you  know 
 that  you  can  see  within  your  space  and 
 then  um  pick  five  photos  of  things  that 
 you  hate  things  that  you  absolutely 
 there's  no  part  of  this  that  you  like 
 you  just  it's  too  straight  it's  too 
 narrow  it's  too  this  it's  too  that 
 whatever  it  is  that  you  don't  like  and 
 give  that  to  your  your  designer  um 
 because  that's  going  to  save  you  so  much 
 time  because  it  really  gives  them  an 
 instantaneous  feel  for  your  style  in 
 this  way  they  can  tell  you  if  you're 
 they  may  be  the  wrong  fit  for  you  and 
 they'll  let  you  know  because  I've  I've 
 had  clients  in  my  past  where  I'm  not  the 
 right  fit  for  them  um  their  their  St 
 might  be  to  Zen  and  and  I'm  I  lean 
 towards  more  of  a  a  tropical  Alice  and 
 Wonderland  kind  of  feel  and  um  and  so 
 I'll  say  you  know  I've  got  the  perfect 
 person  for  you  let  me  you  know  put  you 
 in  touch  with  this  person  and  and  I've 
 given  a  lot  of  of  clients  to  um  other 
 landscape  designers  that  I  know  kind  of 
 fit  more  with  their  space  not  that  I 
 don't  try  to  really  meet  you  halfway  and 
 and  Frankie  can  testify  I  really  do  try 
 to  meet  you  halfway  and  it's  not  my  way 
 or  the  highway  it's  not  in  any  way  that 
 it's  it's  definitely  a  collaboration  um 
 but  it's  it's  also  got  to  be  a  strong 
 suit  for  me  so  if  I  think  I  can't 
 deliver  on  what  you're  looking  for 
 because  it's  not  my  strong  suit  I'll 
 share  that  with  you  and  you  believe  it 
 or  not  a  lot  of  designers  will  share 
 that  um  with  you  and  say  um  you  know  I'm 
 I'm  not  going  to  be  able  to  deliver  on 
 this  so  so  yeah  so  so  be  prepared  and 
 that  way  money  isn't  wasted  cuz 
 Landscaping  as  we  all  know  it  it's 
 expensive  you  know  it's  an  investment 
 and  the  last  thing  want  to  do  is  invest 
 in  on  a  landscaping  that  that  you're 
 having  to  redo  later  y  right  yes  yes 
 communication  communication  is  key  is 
 key  yes  yes  so  all  right  so  thank  you 
 guys  for  for  taking  a  few  minutes  and 
 talking  with  us  and  it's  been  fun  and  we 
 are  going  to  we'll  see  if  you  if  you 
 tell  Jennifer  you  want  a  showstopper 
 she's  going  to  give  you  a 
 showstopper  she  is  GNA  deliver  why  does 
 that  sound  like  a  warning  does  that 
 sound  like  a  warning  to  you 
 guys  all  right  right  I'll  see  you  in  the 
 very  next 
 video  that  was  great  okay  so  this  is  the 
 exact  other  side  the  opposite  side  of  um 
 of  her  property  and  as  you  can  see  this 
 is  a  pretty  busy  area  I  say  that  there's 
 like  no  cars  here  right  but  normally  I 
 promise  you  guys  every  time  we  worked 
 here  it's  like  crazy  with  traffic  here 
 so  there  is  quite  a  bit  of  traffic  that 
 comes  down  this  way  so  she  definitely 
 wanted  to  create  a  outside  buffer  we 
 took  that  um  that  Hardscape  walkway  that 
 you  guys  saw  on  the  inside  and  it  runs 
 all  the  way  along  the  house  foundation 
 here  and  goes  to  this  gate  that's  there 
 so  that  way  she's  able  to  access  all  of 
 those  areas  on  pavers  and  then  be 
 surrounded  by  Landscaping  all  the  way 
 through  so  I'll  come  up  here  and  kind  of 
 share  with  you  what  we  did  so  this 
 little  area  we  have  carved  out  right  now 
 kind  of  ignore  it  but  I'll  address  it 
 this  is  going  to  be  for  a  future  tree 
 that  we're  planning  on  transplanting  and 
 putting  in  here  to  kind  of  um  anchor 
 this  um  this  bed  so  that  way  it  softens 
 this  um  this  fence  line  she's  not  very 
 happy  see  evidence  evidence 
 traffic  she's  not  really  happy  with  how 
 these  um  the  fence  ended  up  stair 
 stepping  from  the  fence  company  so  we're 
 going  to  bring  in  one  of  her  trees  that 
 she  has  back  there  that  is  kind  of  um 
 not  placed  in  a  great  spot  from  the 
 previous  landscape  and  then  put  it  right 
 here  and  then  we're  going  to  kind  of 
 draw  out  the  bed  and  pull  it  down  so 
 that  with  all  ties  in  together  and  it'll 
 also  fit  and  suit  it  it'll  match  that 
 side  a  little  bit  better  once  we  do  that 
 so  so  this  right  here  is  one  of  my 
 favorite  feel  like  I  say  favorites  of 
 everything  it  is  my  favorite  Rojo  red 
 copper  leaf  um  it  is  really  a  nice  dark 
 contrasting  color  it  stays  chunky  and 
 deep  and  dark  in  color  so  so  often  so 
 often  I  use  it  for  um  as  a  mix  between 
 this  and  Blaze  copper  leaf  cuz  they  kind 
 of  do  the  same  thing  for  me  um  so  this 
 is  a  a  nice  deep  coloring  when  I  want  to 
 use  something  like  the  variegated  arbola 
 or  san  Cheesa  near  it  this  is  a  plant 
 that  handles  full  sun  heavy  heavy  heat 
 really  really  easy  it  really  likes  an 
 environment  that  it  gets  pounded  on  with 
 sun  so  I  know  I  can  pull  out  this  bad 
 boy  when  that  that's  happening  the  one 
 thing  that  you  want  to  make  sure  to  do 
 is  plant  it  in  an  area  that  does  get  a 
 good  sprinkler  system  you  want  it  to  be 
 irrigated  because  it's  going  to  soak  up 
 that  sun  but  in  order  for  those  leaves 
 to  stay  shiny  and  not  crispy  you're 
 going  to  want  to  make  sure  that  it  does 
 stay  watered  so  to  the  back  we  have  a 
 clustering  of  anti-l  back  there  and 
 that's  right  to  the  front  of  the  gate  so 
 it's  kind  of  just  a  nice  little  grouping 
 of  those  just  to  kind  of  give  you  a 
 highlight  you  won't  see  that  in  time  um 
 it's  mainly  for  the  inside  of  the 
 walkway  right  here  um  these  kusia  she 
 wants  to  allow  the  kusia  to  get  about  6 
 foot  tall  so  they're  going  to  be  a  6t 
 wall  along  um  along  this  space  to  really 
 give  her  that  PR  privacy 
 feel  and  I  know  that  seems  like  it's  got 
 to  be  a  real  tall  tall  buffer  but  you 
 know  she's  so  exposed  in  so  many  areas 
 of  the  road  so  many  sides  of  the  streets 
 that  she  really  did  want  this  area  to  be 
 private  this  is  this  is  the  access  that 
 her  family  is  going  to  come  to  um  while 
 they  enjoy  the  pool  in  the  back  and  a 
 lot  of  a  lot  of  times  when  she 
 entertains  they're  going  to  come  from 
 the  front  along  this  walkway  leading  to 
 the  back  so  she  really  wanted  them  to 
 feel  like  feel  like  they  were  walking 
 through  the  gardens  as  they  were 
 Meandering  and  W  making  their  way 
 through  the  back  so  that's  kind  of  the 
 reason  for  the  buffer  so  a  nice'  6ft 
 privacy  um  kusia  hedge  is  going  to  go 
 there  and  then  we've  got  variegated 
 arbac  Cola  down  be  down  here  as  a 
 clustering  and  you  and  I  know  that  this 
 is  a  plant  that  is  not  a  favorite  to  a 
 lot  of  people  because  it's  used  so  often 
 in  typical  Builder  packages  but  you  guys 
 when  this  plant's  used  right  I  think 
 it's  a  nice  feature  you  know  when  you 
 look  at  it  from  the  road  you  don't 
 realize  it's  such  a  typical  average 
 plant  mix  it  with  all  the  colors  and 
 different  variations  and  different 
 leaves  popping  up  and  I  think  that 
 brightness  that  it  offers  is  so  worth  it 
 and  the  miror  fact  that  it's  not  a  fussy 
 plant  at  all  it's  just  really  really 
 easy  to  work  with  that  um  it's  kind  of 
 it's  kind  of  worth  using  in  a 
 garden 
 so  right  here  um  we  have  of  course  the 
 fals  agave  and  then  we  have  a  matching 
 fals  Agave  on  the  other  side  of  this 
 curved  bed  we  have  a  center  pie  with 
 this  um  triple  fox  tail  Palm  that  needs 
 needs  a  good  trimming  right  now  and  then 
 some  Brazilian  Red  cloaks  now  these  are 
 Brazilian  Red  cloaks  that  were  planted 
 at  three  gallon  size  which  is  the 
 smallest  I've  ever  planted  them  um  and  I 
 probably  will  not  plant  them  that  small 
 again  because  they're  not  tough  enough 
 to  handle  that  direct  heat  that  young  so 
 I  worked  with  Frankie  on  really  trying 
 to  get  those  happy  and  healthy  and 
 fertilized  this  year  uh  because  they're 
 just  really  really  struggling  they're 
 starting  now  to  really  pop  up  and  get 
 some  size  to  them  so  I'm  so  happy  that's 
 happened  and  um  you  just  want  to  make 
 sure  that  when  you  do  put  them  in  full 
 sun  you're  planting  them  with  um  with 
 some  additional  water  cuz  that's  what 
 they're  going  to  need  so  um  these  are 
 curly  um  the  curly  uh  margarite  copper 
 leaves  and  these  are  fun  little  ruffled 
 copper  leaves  they're  called  Rosas 
 margarites  um  there's  quite  a  few  names 
 to  them  um  but  they're  just  a  fun  little 
 dwarf  copper  leaf  I  don't  see  them  very 
 often  in  the  nursery  so  when  I  do  I  use 
 them  I  really  do  like  to  Cluster  them 
 together  as  a  nice  tight  grouping  and  at 
 the  same  time  use  something  real  bright 
 and  light  in  front  of  it  like  the 
 variegated  arbac  Cola  so  we  have  the 
 Blue  Agave  as  the  centerpiece  the  false 
 agave  as  the  accent  piece  now  this  Blue 
 Agave  even  though  it  looks  a  little  bit 
 younger  than  the  false  agave  I  did  bring 
 it  in  a  little  bit  younger  because  it's 
 a  little  bit  more  expensive  of  an  agave 
 and  it  grows  much  faster  so  to  me  that 
 doesn't  make  a  lot  of  sense  um  so  I 
 bring  those  in  kind  of  small  it's  going 
 to  pop  out  and  be  six  foot  in  this  area 
 and  just  be  a  stunner  in  the  middle  of 
 this  garden  and  really  kind  of  take  up 
 this  whole  Gap  and  this  whole  Space  so 
 when  you  get  these  guys  they  do  not  need 
 to  be  big  when  you  get  them  they  will 
 flush  out  and  be  Giant  in  no  time  so  um 
 so  it's  really  going  to  take  hold  but  I 
 love  that  bluish  coloring  on  their  on 
 their  leaves  they  look  a  little  bit 
 dangerous  with  those  thorns  and  they  can 
 be  so  you  want  to  trim  them  I've  put  in 
 your  foot  on  one  end  down  here  and  then 
 just  taking  a  knife  and  slicing  as  close 
 to  the  trunk  as  possible  so  that's  the 
 way  to  do  it  without  getting  stabbed  so 
 that's  going  to  be  a  great  addition  to 
 the  Garden  especially  when  it  when  it 
 branches  and  reaches 
 out  and  you  know  it's  just  like  I  do 
 most  of  my  Gardens  it's  a  rinse  and 
 repeat  so  we've  got  some  trinets 
 variegated  arbac  Cola  here  and  the  same 
 margarites  or  um  going  or  the  same 
 um  Rojo  uh  copper  leaves  on  the  corners 
 it  really  give  us  that  thickness  and 
 that  clustering  and  then  we  were  able  to 
 get  a  little  bit  softer  um  with  the  yell 
 yellow  thalis  and  these  yellow  thalis 
 are  getting  ready  to  pop  with  Bloom 
 they're  a  nice  green  clustering  right 
 now  but  they're  going  to  have  that 
 yellow  tassel  as  the  summer  comes  out 
 and  really  fill  this  area  with  a  bunch 
 of  bright  yellow  flowers  so  it'll  be 
 yellow  dark  red  yellow  dark  red  you  get 
 the  point  right  so  it's  really  going  to 
 give  you  that  kind  of  nice  clustering 
 all  the  way  through  and  this  to  me  this 
 is  going  to  be  a  low  maintenance  easy 
 care  buffer  um  because  you  got  pretty 
 much  almost  like  a  hedge  CL  ction  of 
 plants  with  some  interesting  things 
 popping  out  of  it  so  when  you  do  your 
 maintenance  it's  pretty  much  just  taking 
 taking  these  clusters  and  making  shaping 
 each  and  every  cluster  really  quickly  so 
 it's  not  like  an  individual  planting  and 
 when  you're  working  with  a  long  space 
 like  that  you  need  to  be  able  to  do  that 
 to  kind  of  keep  the  maintenance  pretty 
 low  um  and  then  we  just  ended  the  bed 
 here  with  a  nice  Royal  Palm  and  another 
 FAL  Agave  a  little  bit  of  boulders  to 
 stair  step  this  area  down  and  while  I 
 think  that  this  is  going  to  be  a 
 gorgeous  gorgeous  buffer  as  it  matures 
 and  I  know  Frankie  is  thrilled  with  it 
 and  so  I  couldn't  help  but  to  come  by 
 and  show  it  off  to  you  guys  and  and 
 hopefully  this  might  be  something  that 
 you  can  use  and  incorporate  within  your 
 own 
 garden  but  um  yeah  privacy  buffers  are 
 huge  and  you  guys  let  me  know  if  you'd 
 like  to  see  more  of  just  privacy  buffers 
 because  I  know  there's  a  lot  of 
 different  ways  to  do  them  and  I've  done 
 them  in  so  many  different  ways 
 throughout  the  Landscapes  and  um  you 
 know  with  us  all  needing  a  little  bit  of 
 Our  Own  shared  you  know  shared  buffering 
 from  from  our  our  neighbors  um  I  think 
 that  that  might  be  a  helpful  a  helpful 
 thing  so  let  me  know  if  you'd  like  to 
 see  that  in  the  comments  down  below  and 
 then  and  as  far  as  commenting  goes 
 please  comment  true  Gardener  if  you  made 
 it  through  this  video  because  you're  a 
 true  Gardener  like  me  and  I  will  see  you 
 guys  in  the  very  next  video  do  not 
 forget  to  like  And  subscribe  I  know 
 Bryce  is  getting  ready  to  remind  me  of 
 that  follow  us  on  Instagram  and  I  will 
 see  you  guys  in  the  U  in  the  very  next 
 tour  so  oh  if  there's  any  or  any  kind  of 
 anything  that  you  guys  would  like  like 
 me  to  to  hit  on  in  the  next  um  in  one  of 
 the  next  videos  then  please  leave  that 
 in  the  comments  down  below  because  we're 
 just  kind  of  going  back  and  forth  to  see 
 we're  we're  making  videos  about  a  lot  of 
 the  comments  that  you  guys  um  post  um 
 and  and  that  way  we  can  help  and  I've 
 just  recently  started  doing  short 
 replies  which  I  think  is  the  coolest 
 thing  ever  because  it's  like  having  a 
 conversation  so  if  you  ask  a  question  on 
 there  and  I  answer  the  question  in  a 
 short  it's  been  a  challenge  trying  to 
 find  a  question  that  I  can  answer  within 
 one  minute  cuz  it's  you  guys  may  have 
 noticed  it's  okay  if  you  haven't  but  if 
 you  have  may  have  noticed  I  have  a 
 tendency  to  really  ramble  and  talk  about 
 what  I  love  and  continue  talking  so  um 
 the  60-second  mark  that  they  give  you 
 for  the  shorts  is  is  not  my  friend  so  if 
 you  ask  a  question  then  um  maybe  make  it 
 an  exact  question  and  I  will  do  my  very 
 best  to  answer  that  within  um  within 
 that  60-second  time  frame  so  other  than 
 that  it's  been  a  my  pleasure  and  I  will 
 see  you  guys  in  the  very  next  um  14  tour 
 14  coming  up  so  see  you  soon  bye-bye 
 [Music] 
 [Music]

---

 [Music] 
 hey  you  guys  welcome  back  for  week  six 
 week  six  we  are  going  to  do  one  of  my 
 favorite  plants  as  we  work  my  way 
 through  the  yard  um  we  are  back  in  my 
 front  yard  again  and  I'm  going  to  share 
 with  you  blaze  copper  Lea  Blaze  copper 
 leaf  are  commonly  used  within  my 
 Landscapes  and  I'm  about  to  tell  you  why 
 this  plant  is  a  go-to  plant  for  me  I 
 absolutely  love  it  I  just  love  the 
 characteristics  of  its  leaves  I  love  the 
 coloring  I  love  the  way  it  Mounds  down  I 
 mean  this  is  about  a  dozen  plants  in  one 
 grouping  and  you  could  really  tell  they 
 love  their  area  they  love  their 
 environment  during  the  winter  time  they 
 get  a  little  bit  more  of  this  pink  tinge 
 to  them  during  the  summer  they  have  a 
 little  bit  more  of  what  you  see  here  in 
 this  kind  of  coloration  both  times  of 
 the  year  to  me  they're  absolutely 
 gorgeous  they're  just  a  fun  overall 
 plant  to  work  with  and  I  know  they're 
 quite  small  when  they're  planted  but 
 really  they  do  make  a  fantastic  backdrop 
 to  any  any  type  of  landscape  so  when  you 
 plant  them  you  definitely  want  to  make 
 sure  that  you  plant  them  at  about  three 
 foot  apart  from  one  another  because  you 
 can  see  each  plant  really  does  like  to 
 connect  to  the  next  Plant  this  is  not  a 
 plant  grouping  that  is  ever  going  to  be 
 a  very  clean  clean  grouping  where  you 
 can  keep  the  plant  individual  like  an 
 individual  hasta  for  instance  or 
 individually  Mound  this  is  a  plant 
 grouping  that  really  does  need  to 
 connect  to  its  neighbor  green  plant  so 
 when  I  plant  this  plant  within  a 
 landscaping  I  plant  it  in  plants  of 
 three  so  I  almost  like  a  triangle 
 formation  I'll  plant  two  side  by  side 
 and  one  forward  and  let  them  Mound  and 
 connect  together  because  they're  a 
 braided  plant  and  they  naturally  want  to 
 Leaf  out  and  connect  to  its  its 
 surrounding  plants  so  um  and  they're 
 such  good  Growers  that  you  want  to  make 
 sure  that  you  give  a  little  bit  of 
 distance  between  the  next  clustering  of 
 plants  that  you're  going  to  work  with 
 other  than  that  they're  tough  they're 
 strong  they  can  handle  our  cure  spells 
 um  they  can  handle  temperatures  into  the 
 low  30s  maybe  even  the  20s  I  I  rarely 
 ever  cover  these  guys  they're  just  tough 
 tough  tough  and  you  know  if  you  don't 
 like  you're  not  a  croin  fan  but  you're 
 in  Florida  and  that's  the  variegation 
 color  that  a  lot  of  people  are  used  to 
 these  offer  you  that  same  variegation 
 and  more  of  the  Pinker  tones  and  I  just 
 think  that  they're  just  they're  a  go-to 
 plant  for  me  now  they  absolutely  love  a 
 um  a  well-watered  environment  so  you'll 
 notice  that  if  they're  not  getting  good 
 water  they'll  Wilt  on  you  so  you 
 definitely  want  to  make  sure  that  you're 
 watering  at  least  three  times  a  a  week 
 in  the  summer  months  and  a  couple  times 
 a  week  in  the  winter  months  so  they're 
 they're  just  a  great  overall  plant  um  as 
 far  as  trimming  now  this  plant  does  grow 
 as  you  can  see  I  wanted  to  wait  until  I 
 did  this  video  before  I  trimmed  it  but  I 
 do  a  hard  cut  back  on  this  plant  three 
 times  a  year  and  don't  worry  about  you 
 know  gaping  holes  or  anything  like  that 
 it  will  flush  back  out  no  matter  what 
 kind  of  bad  Barber  you  are  you  can  trim 
 this  guy  in  half  and  it'll  flush  back 
 out  into  a  beautiful  plant  so  it  is 
 pretty  indestructible  so  all  I  do  is 
 obviously  I  take  it  off  of  the  walkway 
 and  I  just  trim  all  of  this  off  all  of 
 these  individual  stems  I'll  go  in  here 
 with  my  big  loppers  and  Lop  them  all 
 back  to  exactly  the  lines  that  I'm 
 facing  and  it'll  mushroom  back  out  into 
 its  natural  growth  pattern  so  I  will 
 make  sure  to  almost  round  this  whole 
 area  to  get  it  off  the  base  of  my  bottle 
 palm  and  then  you  know  open  area  around 
 my  coconut  palm  and  then  it  does  a  great 
 job  of  just  kind  of  infolding  back  into 
 it  over  the  next  few  months  so  it's  a 
 fantastic  plant  grouping  uh  to  work  with 
 uh  fertilization  it  loves  8212  Palm 
 fertilizer  it  is  a  big  fan  of  a  palm 
 fertilized  grouping  so  or  Palm  a  slow 
 releas  granular  so  that's  all  I  use  on 
 there  now  my  yard  has  a  natural 
 potassium  deficiency  so  sometimes  I  will 
 add  potassium  to  that  so  I'll  do  a 
 drench  in  here  and  after  especially 
 after  trimming  and  add  in  a  nice  dose  of 
 potassium  so  even  though  8212  has 
 potassium  in  there  I  do  a  little  bit 
 more  with  the  drench  so  um  it's 
 definitely  um  it's  definitely  worth 
 worth  adding  to  it  so  um  you  know  check 
 your  soil  check  kind  of  what  your 
 deficient  in  and  then  you  might  have  to 
 add  a  little  bit  of  magnesium  in 
 addition  to  your  into  your  land  or  into 
 your  fertilizing  or  um  iron  or  sulfur  or 
 whatever  that  might  be  you  guys  that's 
 going  to  make  all  the  difference  in  the 
 world  on  what  your  plant  soaks  up 
 through  um  through  your  your  garden 
 because  it's  really  your  soil  that 
 you're  amending  not  necessarily  the 
 plant  the  plant's  going  to  feed  from  the 
 soil  so  I  did  a  video  um  a  couple  years 
 ago  on  soil  samples  and  how  to  test  your 
 soil  I'll  link  it  down  below  I  think 
 it's  really  valuable  to  do  that  just  so 
 you  know  what  kind  of  soil  you're 
 dealing  with  in  your  garden  um  because 
 it  really  does  it  it  can  make  you  not 
 waste  a  bunch  of  money  on  fertilizer 
 because  you  might  just  need  a  specific 
 element  in  your  garden  and  then  then  you 
 could  just  bring  by  that  and  then  just 
 do  a  overall  couple  times  a  year  a  slow 
 relase  fertilizer  um  for  kind  of  a  a 
 vitamin  for  your  plant  so  um  but  yes  and 
 um  as  far  as  companion  plants  for  this 
 guy  I  have  a  tendency  to  um  to  plant 
 this  with  a  tall  grouping  so  um  this  is 
 always  going  to  be  my  front  planting  for 
 the  most  part  and  then  I'll  put 
 something  in  the  back  that's  either  um 
 like  a  a  red  copper  leaf  something  I'm 
 going  to  allow  to  get  six  or  seven  foot 
 tall  something  that  I'm  really  going  to 
 allow  maybe  kusia  as  a  backdrop 
 something  that  gives  me  a  striking 
 contrast  from  from  this  this  coloration 
 here  I  usually  plant  sesia  now  when  I 
 plant  sesia  it's  usually  to  the  front  of 
 this  planting  CU  sesia  max  out  and  and 
 you  maintain  that  around  three  foot  in 
 this  guy  I  like  to  keep  maintained 
 around  four  four  and  a  half  foot  so  as 
 long  as  you're  keeping  that  stair  step 
 effect  so  imagine  if  we  had  sesia  to  the 
 front  here  then  you  had  this  coloration 
 to  the  back  and  then  to  the  back  there 
 we  had  either  the  bright  bright  red 
 Louisiana  copper  leaves  or  we  had  dark 
 green  kusia  that  three  alone  would  be 
 phenomenal  plant  grouping  so  and  they 
 all  love  the  same  type  of  water  they  the 
 same  type  of  fertilizers  the  same  type 
 of  um  overall  care  so  you're  maintaining 
 everything  the  same  way  within  a  garden 
 so  blazed  copper  leaves  are  fabulous 
 when  it  comes  to  that  now  this  area  gets 
 a  good  amount  of  sunshine  here  right  off 
 the  walkway  so  it  has  a  little  brighter 
 coloring  to  the  leaf  if  you  walk  with  me 
 over  here  around  the  corner  I  have  um  a 
 cling  of  the  same  and  they're  more  in 
 the  shade  they're  definitely  more  um 
 protected  from  the  rest  of  the  from  the 
 from  the  Sun  and  you  can  see  how  the 
 coloring  really  does  darken  and  so  if 
 you're  in  a  um  a  shade  environment 
 doesn't  mean  that  you  can't  keep  the 
 same  plant  but  you're  definitely  going 
 to  want  to  you  know  just  just  know  the 
 difference  you  know  if  you  love  that 
 bright  coloration  stick  it  outright  full 
 front  in  the  Sun  and  you'll  get  that 
 vibrant  color  although  you  know  I  I'm 
 just  this  is  a  go-to  plant  for  me  you 
 kind  of  see  how  I  have  the  sesia  to  the 
 front  and  just  just  what  a  nice  pairing 
 they  make  together  so  um  yeah  so  that's 
 a  great  companion  plant  for  it  if  I  if 
 you  uh  guys  think  of  any  other  questions 
 that  you  have  um  regarding  the  blaze 
 copper  leaf  please  let  me  know  I'd  be 
 happy  to  mention  it  any  of  you  guys 
 who've  had  experience  with  this  plant 
 and  want  to  cover  anything  that  I  didn't 
 please  stick  it  in  the  comments  down 
 below  and  I'll  be  sure  to  pin  it  so 
 other  people  can  read  it  and  that  way 
 we're  all  kind  of  helping  each  other 
 through  this  Garden  community  so  um  I  uh 
 looked  forward  to  seeing  you  next  week 
 on  the  next  plant  or  tree  of  the  week 
 and  um  like  uh 
 subscribe  this  is  always  so  hard  for  me 
 like  like  subscribe  follow  us  on 
 Instagram  and  um  comment  true  Garder  if 
 you  will 
 [Music]

---

 [Music] 
 hey  you  guys  welcome  back  so  we  are 
 going  to  do  Garden  Tour  12  this  is  going 
 to  be  a  front  yard  Garden  in  Fort  Pierce 
 Florida  as  I  stand  underneath  the  Claus 
 Vines  but  this  is  an  Asian  inspired 
 Garden  which  is  very  very  new  for  me  I 
 did  this  Garden  a  couple  years  ago  and 
 you  know  I  just  I  I  think  it  was  so 
 Charming  we  just  did  their  backyard  tour 
 which  was  all  but  jungle  in  the  backyard 
 and  so  the  front  yard  has  a  whole 
 different  feel  to  it  which  I  love  that 
 that  personality  shift  I  think  that 
 every  space  should  be  your  space  and  if 
 I  had  a  big  enough  Garden  I'd  literally 
 have  Garden  for  all  parts  of  the  world 
 there  and  just  you  know  that's  just  my 
 thing  but  so  this  is  an  Asian  inspired 
 garden  and  and  you  guys  will  have  to  let 
 me  know  what  you  think  but  we  have  a  lot 
 of  mix  of  existing  material  that  was 
 here  so  we  worked  with  a  lot  of  things 
 that  um  that  was  here  and  kind  of 
 repurposed  what  we  could  and  and  um 
 Incorporated  some  new  things  so  I'll 
 share  with  you  both  that  way  that  way 
 you  can  see  what's  what  um  for  first  we 
 started  we  repurposed  her  Boulders  um 
 they  were  in  a  different  spot  but  I  love 
 them  at  the  front  part  of  the  garden  as 
 they  really  anchor  the  front  entrance 
 way  I  just  think  they're  so  super  super 
 cool  um  I  we  we're  thinking  at  one  point 
 we  might  end  up  doing  a  water  feature 
 with  them  having  them  kind  of  bubble 
 through  those  holes  or  you  know  do 
 something  else  with  that  but  you  know 
 we've  done  multiple  phases  for  these 
 clients  as  you  guys  can  imagine  so  we'll 
 we'll  have  to  um  we'll  have  to  see  what 
 we  end  up  doing  there  this  is  yellow 
 thalis  yellow  thalis  is  um  blooming  in 
 the  early  early  part  of  summer  so 
 they're  not  quite  there  yet  they've  got 
 some  good  growth  on  them  they  haven't 
 had  a  chance  to  really  flush  out  with 
 the  season  but  when  they  do  they're 
 going  to  have  that  gorgeous  yellow 
 tassel  right  by  the  front  which  to  me 
 anytime  that  they're  surrounded  with 
 Boulders  I  just  think  they  give  you  that 
 kind  of  natural  beachy  kind  of  look  but 
 I  needed  a  little  bit  of  softness  up 
 here  CU  we  have  a  lot  of  formal  clean 
 Lines  within  this  Garden  so  if  I  can  mix 
 any  of  that  in  there  then  I  have  a 
 tendency  to  do  so  here  is  a  little  gem 
 magnolia  that  was  an  existing  tree  and 
 my  clients  are  so  patient  they've  been 
 really  really  working  with  this  tree  I'm 
 not  sure  if  it's  going  to  if  it's  going 
 to  last  but  it's  it's  they're  they're 
 doing  their  best  with  it  down  below 
 we've  encircled  it  with  some  um  dwarf 
 kusia  and  then  this  is  a  dwarf  poinsetta 
 tree  and  you  can  kind  of  see  that  that 
 blooms  all  through  the  winter  and  you 
 can  see  it  still  has  some  blooms  left 
 from  the  season  so  we  are  currently 
 shooting  in  March  we're  going  to  get  a 
 batch  of  these  videos  done  together 
 while  Bryce  is  here  and  uh  helping  me 
 shoot 
 so  but  isn't  that  a  lovely  little  tree 
 and  they  grow  so  so  slow  so  if  you've 
 got  a  spot  in  your  garden  that  gets  good 
 Sun  that  you  want  something  with  a  blast 
 of  color  um  that  is  a  lovely  lovely  tree 
 and  to  me  it  has  that  Asian  kind  of  look 
 to  it  so  I've  surrounded  it  with  some 
 foxtail  ferns  some  dwarf  Cedars  and 
 again  some  foxtail  ferns  now  we  outline 
 this  whole  bed  with  some  um  some 
 boulders  that  we  dug  into  the  ground  so 
 that  way  they're  somewhat  level  and  kind 
 of  gave  a  nice  little  Edge  to  um  to 
 their 
 bed  and  then  is  this  not  the  most 
 beautiful  imp  perelis  bmad  I  just  you 
 know  the  greens  are  so  hard  to  come  by  I 
 don't  see  them  very  often  but  it  is 
 absolutely  a  stunner  in  my  eyes  and 
 Bryce  if  you  look  in  here  you  can  see 
 how  this  whole  set  of  leaves  is  just 
 about  to  pop  up  out  of 
 it  is  it  isn't  nature  cool  is  just  such 
 a  cool  plant  and  then  um  so  we  have 
 tahan  gray  Granite  here  um  you'll  have 
 to  kind  of  look  past  the  rust  of  the 
 water  that's  the  only  negative  to  the  um 
 to  the  the  yard  unfortunately  is  that 
 they  have  to  deal  with  that  rust  water 
 but  you  know  it  it  does  give  you  a  nice 
 kind  of  kind  of  just  overall  Rock 
 balance  here  I  do  love  having  the  stone 
 on  Stone  with  the  boulders  and  the  and 
 the  rocks  and  then  she  brought  in  some 
 some  cool  features  with  some  um  with 
 some  of  her  lanterns  which  I  think  is  so 
 cool 
 [Music] 
 and  then  we  have  some  Jupiter  Juniper 
 Nana  down  below  as  the  ground  cover 
 here  and  then  right  here  rice  this  is  a 
 topiary  buan  Vila  now  now  when  I  found 
 this  Bugan  Vila  I  knew  that  we  wanted  a 
 Bugan  Vila  that  almost  gave  us  like  a 
 bonsai  type  of  look  and  so  I  um  very 
 very  excited  about  this  tree  because 
 this  tree  not  only  has  the  um  the  copper 
 along  the  base  and  and  and  running 
 through  the  tree  to  help  hold  support  it 
 through  all  of  our  winds  but  it  also  has 
 it  inside  so  it  helps  support  the  canopy 
 which  is  such  a  rare  thing  when  you're 
 looking  at  Bugan  Vila  because  I'm 
 commonly  searching  for  that  has  enough 
 structure  in  it  that  once  the  tree  gets 
 beautiful  and  big  it  doesn't  just  end  up 
 breaking  in  half  which  happens  a  lot  um 
 now  this  tree  is  not  yet  in  bloom  I  see 
 little  blooms  starting  all  over  it  but 
 um  they  just  went  through  the  trimming 
 cycle  so  I'm  assuming  that's  probably 
 cut  off  most  of  the  blooms  so  we 
 incorporated  some  Boulders  in  this 
 area  and  then  um  that  little  area  on  the 
 corner  of  the  house  right  there  um  that 
 had  um  just  quite  a  bit  of  issues  with 
 water  falling  so  we  ended  up  putting  in 
 some  crazy  vermilia  we  raised  it  and 
 then  we  put  in  kind  of  like  a  a  boulder 
 retaining  wall  right  there  to  to  kind  of 
 give  that  some  interest  and  then  we 
 chose  a  bigger  Stone  there  that  led  into 
 the  bigger  Stone  here  and  then  we  did  a 
 smaller  um  crushed  granite  and  the 
 inside  of  that  um  where  we  put  in 
 the  lovely 
 um  watch  yourself  rice  those  are 
 pointy  so  if  you  look  down  this  way  Ry 
 this  is  a  nice  incline  that  you  see  here 
 this  is  actually  raised  about  about  5  in 
 above  grade  I  don't  know  if  you  can 
 catch  that  on  video  or  not  but  I  love 
 that  we  use  this  big  rock  here  this  is  a 
 tahan  gray  Granite  but  this  is  a  the  1 
 to  3  in  so  it's  really  really  nice  size 
 and  so  it  kind  of  create  created  almost 
 like  a  funnel  in  this  way  really  allowed 
 the  water  to  kind  of  come  off  of  this 
 corner  where  water  pushed  off  and  come 
 down  through  this  way  and  then  just  to 
 make  it  interesting  we  just  ended  up 
 putting  in  a  salt  and  pepper  Rock  here 
 that's  much  smaller  just  to  kind  of  give 
 us  a  little  little  interesting  pop  outs 
 and  we  chose  it  here  and  put  in  a 
 planter  with  a  green  Island  Ficus 
 because  to  me  this  has  a  little  bit  of 
 that  kind  of  bonsai  tight  look  and  I 
 think  it  did  a  nice  job  of 
 that  and  then  we  anchored  it  with  some 
 bigger 
 Boulders  and  see  this  little  Agave  here 
 too  Bryce  has  a  nice  little  cut  out  of 
 that  kind  of  stone  as  well  so  just  a  fun 
 feature  in  the  garden  and  to  me  if  you 
 can  play  with  rocks  and  different  types 
 of  rocks  and  then  put  in  a  nice  clean 
 divider  and  to  separate  that  look  it  I 
 it  just  it  it's  a  small  it's  a  small 
 thing  that  you  can  do  in  a  small  space 
 that  really  makes  that  space  pop 
 so  and  then  this  is  a  granite  um  a 
 granite  water  feature  with  obviously  a 
 bamboo  spout  and  it's  surrounded  with 
 Boulders  on  the  outside  it  has 
 100-gallon  Reservoir  down  below  so  it 
 just  recir  and  the  irrigation  system 
 adds  a  little  bit  of  water  to  it  as  it 
 tops  off  but  it  just  dribbles  and  gives 
 you  that  nice  subtle  small  sound  going 
 through  the  garden  which  I  just  think  is 
 I  don't  know  it's  it's  just  it's  just 
 lovely  and  it  really  suits  a  small  space 
 really  really 
 well  well  and  I  think  I  mentioned  this 
 is  a  small  garden  with  a  small  garden 
 tour  but  yeah  this  is  um  this  is  pretty 
 much  it  for  this  space  um  I  I  thought  it 
 was  just  a  fun  one  to  to  feature  because 
 it's  so  different  than  the  ones  that  I 
 normally  do  and  it  really  um  it  I  I 
 really  want  you  guys  to  know  that  when 
 I'm  doing  designs  I  definitely  have  my 
 own  style  in  a  landscape  but  I 
 definitely  want  to  incorporate  what's 
 important  to  the  client  what  what 
 they're  really  looking  to  to  to  come 
 home  to  because  that's  really  what  it's 
 all  about  it's  not  it's  not  about  just 
 this  is  my  way  or  the  highway  this  is 
 something  that  you  know  I  I  when  I 
 design  it  and  propose  it  and  we  walk 
 through  it  together  it's  really  got  to 
 feel  like  it's  it's  um  it's  it's  their 
 their  um  their  creation  their  Style  it's 
 something  we've  done  together  it's 
 definitely  a  collaborative  effect  so  um 
 a  collaborative  event  I  mean  so  it's  um 
 I  think  this  one  came  out  just  the  way 
 that  she  intended  it  to  and  a  couple 
 years  later  she's  just  raved  about  it  so 
 she  enjoys  it  just  as  much  so  so  I  hope 
 you  guys  like  it  I  hope  it  gave  you  some 
 inspiration  whatever  I  miss  sck  in  the 
 comments  down  below  with  the  timestamp 
 and  I'll  be  happy  to  answer  your 
 questions  and  like  And  subscribe  and  I 
 will  see  you  in  the  very  next  Garden 
 Tour  make  sure  you  comment  true  Gardener 
 true  gardeners  um  because  you  made  it 
 through  the  garden  tour  I  appreciate  you 
 and  I  will  see  you  for  that  cup  of 
 coffee  your  glass  of  wine  or  or  whatever 
 that  might  be  in  the  very  next  Garden 
 Tour  follow  us  on  Instagram  for  updates 
 and  do  that  too  make  sure  to  have  a  good 
 day  and  that  too  take  care  you  guys 
 Happy  planting 
 [Music]

---

 hey  you  guys  welcome  back  we  are  doing 
 plant  of  the  week  five  week  five  so 
 thank  you  so  much  for  stopping  in  I'm 
 excited  to  share  with  you  what  is 
 actually  not  a  plant  it's  going  to  be  a 
 palm  it  is  one  of  my  favorite  Palms  to 
 work  with  I  feel  like  I  say  that  all  the 
 time  because  you  know  palms  and  plants 
 are  all  my  favorites  and  we  are  back  in 
 my  front  yard  again  this  is  a  triple 
 bottle  pal  I  absolutely  love  this  as  an 
 understo  tree  it  is  rare  in  Florida  to 
 find  a  palm  tree  that  is  not  going  to  be 
 planted  at  one  size  and  then  you  blink 
 and  the  next  day  is  20  foot  tall  this 
 palm  tree  grows  6  in  per  year  so  super 
 super  super  slow  grower  and  then  it  um 
 matures  out  to  about  10  to  12  depending 
 on  the  location  so  I've  got  some  P  some 
 bottle  Palms  in  the  back  that  have 
 matured  out  to  12  feet  singles  and  I'm 
 hoping  that  this  one  is  about  a  a  about 
 a  10  to  12  foot  range  on  on  this  one  I 
 love  this  tree  because  not  only  can  you 
 put  it  just  about  anywhere  you  can  make 
 it  an  understory  tree  as  I  have  it  here 
 underneath  my  coconut  palm  it  really 
 does  a  nice  job  of  giving  me  that  layer 
 effect  in  a  rather  tight  spot  right 
 along  my  walkway  here  now  um  I  can  place 
 this  tree  you  can  see  I'm  inches  from 
 the  edge  of  my  walkway  here  and  I'm  not 
 at  all  concerned  about  it  because  the 
 roots  are  so  fibrous  so  small  on  this 
 tree  that  I  do  not  have  to  worry  about 
 it  lifting  up  my  walkway  you  can  put 
 this  near  pools  you  can  put  this  near  um 
 paper  patios  travertine  anything  along 
 those  lines  and  these  guys  are  not  going 
 to  fight  you  on  it  so  this  is  a  great 
 tree  I'm  so  sorry  I'm  losing  my  voice 
 you  guys  seems  like  this  week's  videos  I 
 got  my  wisdom  tea  taken  out  uh  last  week 
 so  I  was  all  puffy  chipmunk  Chief  and 
 chipmunk  cheek  and  today  I'm  losing  my 
 voice  so  I  really  appreciate  you  guys 
 you're  going  to  have  to  comment  true 
 Gardener  because  you've  really  you've 
 really  been  through  the  gamut  with  me 
 this  week  on  these  this  bundle  of  videos 
 that  I'm  doing  with  Bryce  so  but  I 
 definitely  want  to  get  them  out  and 
 share  a  few  things  with  you  um  this  tree 
 um  is  a  triple  of 
 course  however  um  most  of  the  time  I  use 
 bottle  Palms  there  are  a  single  variety 
 I  think  they're  perfect  for  both 
 locations  they're  great  for  Courtyards 
 great  for  small  areas  great  for  pool 
 areas  so  do  not  be  afraid  to  plant  this 
 tree  um  I've  also  planted  them  inside 
 pool  planter  Islands  knowing  how  slow 
 they  grow  and  how  many  years  you  get  um 
 of  a  cool  frond  in  the  pool  area  area  um 
 this  because  it's  a  triple  it  has  a 
 little  bit  bigger  of  a 
 canopy  um  but  when  they're  singles 
 what's  great  about  them  is  each  each 
 trunk  only  has  about  five  or  six  fronds 
 on  it  so  it's  not  going  to  be  one  of 
 those  trees  or  those  Palms  that  gosh 
 it's  just  nothing  but  fronds  it  just 
 takes  over  and  it  blocks  whatever  is 
 behind  it  you're  definitely  going  to  be 
 able  to  see  what's  behind  it  but  it 
 gives  you  that  graceful  tropical  leaf  on 
 those  fronds  I  just  I  love  the  way  they 
 Arch  my  husband  does  not  like  to  be  hit 
 in  the  face  with  Palms  as  he's  walking 
 through  here  so  he  did  a  nice  little 
 macgyvering  here  by  pulling  up  this  limb 
 until  this  tree  gets  of  size  and  it's  up 
 and  over  but  I  think  once  it's  up  and 
 over  because  I  have  patience  you  guys  I 
 know  what  it's  going  to  do  once  it's  up 
 and  over  what  a  great  arching  feel  it's 
 going  to  do  from  my  pond  area  and  coming 
 up  the  walkway  and  coming  up  the 
 entrance  I  just  think  it's  going  to  be 
 absolutely  stunning  in  that  particular 
 spot  so  so  I'm  willing  to  wait  um  fun 
 fact  on  these  Tre  trees  now  they  are 
 native  to  Madagascar  um  but  this  as  you 
 can  see  that  this  new  frond  that's 
 coming  out  it's  kind  of  got  a  hard  shell 
 to  it  and  what's  fantastic  about  that  is 
 it  knows  it's  a  little  guy  in  a  big  Palm 
 world  and  so  it's  got  to  really  produce 
 this  hard  shell  that  way  it  can  push 
 through  Leaf  foliage  and  and  frond  tree 
 and  other  big  fronds  and  other  trees 
 through  a  forest  in  order  for  that  um 
 for  it  to  grow  so  it  really  does  um  it's 
 it's  a  kind  of  a  formidable  palm  and 
 second  third  fourth  fifth  sixth  I  don't 
 know  where  I've  lost  track  of  the  tips 
 but  another  great  fact  of  it  is  that  it 
 does  not  have  any  Thorns  so  those  those 
 of  you  guys  who  love  the  idea  of  like 
 pyate  palms  and  how  small  and  chunky 
 they  stay  but  they  had  those  giant 
 Thorns  that  you  have  to  fight  with  these 
 guys  do  not  have  the  Thorns  this  plant 
 or  this  tree  shows  that  it  can  be 
 planted  in  the  full  sun  it  can  be 
 planted  in  the  shade  um  however  I  have 
 noticed  planting  it  in  full  Sun  it  does 
 bleach  the  tree  out  a  little  bit  so  um 
 if  you  can  plant  it  as  an  understory 
 tree  those  leaves  are  so  those  frawns 
 are  so  much  greener  in  in  general  um 
 that  little  bit  of  coverage  that  that 
 that  tree  provides  during  the  middle  of 
 the  day  offers  look  at  how  just  nice  and 
 green  these  leaves  are  I  mean  it's  just 
 a  stunner  I  just  love  don't  this  not 
 look  like  like  the  Louisville  doors  I 
 just  love  I  love  the  look  of  that  leaf 
 it's  just  so  Charming 
 now  you'll  notice  a  little  bit  of 
 spotting  that  I  have  here  and  my  yard 
 has  a  natural  potassium  deficiency  um  I 
 do  use  8212  as  a  um  as  a  fertilizer  on 
 it  Palm  gain  8212  I'm  very  happy  with 
 that  product  University  of  Florida 
 recommends  it  and  it's  a  it's  a  great 
 slow  release  product  to  work  with  um 
 however  I  do  douse  it  um  a  couple  times 
 a  year  with  a  drench  it's  a  potassium  um 
 drench  that  I  will  put  on  just  the  base 
 of  the  tree  I'll  mix  about  an  ounce  of 
 it  with  a  gallon  of  water  and  and  put  it 
 around  the  base  and  then  I  also  will  use 
 and  Bryce  you  can  post  a  picture  of  that 
 but  it's  a  um  it's  a  nutritional  spray 
 for  Palms  you  can  put  it  on  a  hose  and 
 bib  so  if  you  don't  want  to  do  the 
 drench  and  you've  got  several  Palms  it's 
 a  super  easy  way  to  do  it  you  just  kind 
 of  put  it  on  the  hose  end  you  put  a 
 couple  cat  fulls  in  there  and  then  you 
 just  spray  the  whole  tree  with  that  with 
 the  hose  end  um  bib  with  that 
 nutritional  spray  and  you  can  spray  this 
 tree  all  around  the  trunk  definitely  up 
 into  the  inset  of  the  tree  early 
 mornings  are  ideal  to  use  that  product 
 because  that's  when  the  trees  pores  are 
 open  so  you're  really  going  to  get  a 
 great  benefit  from  that  but  spray  it 
 inside  as  much  as  you  can  I  spray  that 
 tree  obviously  not  on  a  windy  day  but  I 
 spray  the  center  of  that  tree  and  and 
 spray  all  the  way  down  to  the  trunk  and 
 I  tell  you  it  greens  up  a  tree  faster 
 than  anything  I've  ever  seen  within  2 
 weeks  it's  everything  is  really  you  can 
 see  all  of  that  green  just  come  to  life 
 it's  just  amazing  so  a  lot  of  times  um 
 uh  places  that  have  garden  tours  and  um 
 even  when  I  entertain  for  a  big  group 
 I'll  go  through  and  spray  everything 
 down  that  way  it  shows  off  the  best  it 
 can  show  off  during  that  time  period  but 
 and  you  can  use  it  anytime  you  can  use 
 it  in  the  winter  you  can  use  it  in  the 
 summer  you  can  use  it  once  a  month  if 
 you  want  to  but  I  end  up  only  pulling  it 
 out  once  or  once  or  twice  a  year  you 
 know  most  most  of  the  time  twice  a  year 
 um  because  I  really  want  to  really  want 
 the  Palms  to  show  off  and  and  gleam  um  I 
 think  I  mentioned  the  companion  trees 
 that  you  can  plant  this  with  I  planted 
 mine  in  front  of  triangle  Palms  because 
 the  triangle  fan  Palms  are  so  nice  and 
 flat  and  then  this  is  so  wide  and 
 arching  that  they  they  show  off  so  well 
 together  you  can  plant  them  underneath 
 coconut  palms  and  this  tree  will  never 
 ever  outgrow  obviously  the  coconut  palms 
 fox  tail  palms  this  is  definitely  what 
 you  would  consider  a  centerpiece  tree 
 it's  definitely  what  what's  going  to  be 
 the  focal  point  tree  or  the  dense  tree 
 in  the  garden  so  yeah  um  trying  to  think 
 if  there's  anything  else  I  can 
 mention  to  you  guys  if  there's  anything 
 that  I've  missed  about  this  bottle  Palm 
 something  that  you  may  be  aware  of  that 
 you  might  want  to  share  with  our 
 gardening  Community  please  stick  it  in 
 the  comments  down  below  um  you  know  I'm 
 I've  been  in  this  business  a  long  time 
 but  it  seems  like  I  learn  something 
 every  every  year  it  amazes  me  how  much 
 um  knowledge  that  you  gain  the  more  and 
 more  and  more  you  are  around  these 
 plants  and  trees  so  please  share  your 
 knowledge  and  I  know  we  all  appreciate 
 it  um  other  than  that  comment  true 
 Gardener  uh  because  if  you  made  through 
 the  video  you're  a  true  Gardener  like  me 
 and  then  um  check  us  out  on  Instagram 
 like  And  subscribe  and  I  will  see  you 
 next  week  at  our  very  next  plan  of  the 
 week  thank  you 
 [Music]

---

 [Music] 
 hey  you  guys  welcome  back  thanks  for 
 coming  back  for  another  plan  of  the  week 
 video  we  are  week  four  and  today  is 
 going  to  be  the  fire  Spike  that  we're 
 talking  about  um  hope  you  guys  Bry  might 
 had  to  put  the  captions  on  the  bottom  of 
 the  screen  because  I  have  a  tend  it 
 looks  like  I'm  losing  my  voice  so  last 
 couple  videos  I  got  my  wisdom  teeth 
 pulled  this  week  I'm  losing  my  voice  so 
 um  bear  with  me  appreciate  you  guys  um 
 bearing  through  it  so  the  fire  spike  is 
 one  of  my  favorite  plants  I'm  absolutely 
 in  love  with  it  it's  not  only  a  favorite 
 to  me  it's  a  favorite  to  the 
 hummingbirds  so  you  guys  pick  a  spot  in 
 your  garden  stick  a  little  cluster  of 
 them  they  bloom  um  in  the  winter  and 
 they  bloom  in  Fall  um  you  know  so 
 they're  kind  of  in  a  similar  blooming 
 cycle  as  the  Brazilian  Red  cloaks  the  um 
 the  other  um  plan  of  the  week  that  we 
 did  and  they  really  really  offer  a  lot 
 of  color  this  is  my  favorite  color 
 patter  pattern  of  this  um  particular 
 plant  we  do  have  them  or  you  do  get  them 
 in  Reds  you  can  get  them  in  purples  this 
 is  the  magenta  I  absolutely  love  it  it 
 is  a  little  bit  more  rare  to  find  in  the 
 nurseries  but  I  think  it's  definitely 
 you  know  definitely  definitely  worth  um 
 looking  for  now  if  you  look  online  it 
 says  it  can  be  planted  in  full  sun  and 
 it  absolutely  can  but  I'm  not  quite  sure 
 it  meant  Florida's  full  sun  so  I  have 
 planted  it  years  ago  when  I  first 
 started  working  with  it  um  in  full  sun 
 for  a  client  and  un  fortunately  um  I  had 
 to  replace  it  the  year  later  because  it 
 just  looked  ped  out  it  just  wasn't  happy 
 so  when  um  when  you  do  plant  it  in  full 
 sun  plant  in  an  environment  where  it 
 does  get  a  little  bit  of  filtered  light 
 um  from  these  palm  trees  you  know  gets  a 
 little  bit  of  protection  gets  a  little 
 bit  of  barrier  on  the  sides  and  they 
 will  do  so  so  well  I  also  commonly  plant 
 it  like  along  a  walkway  or  a  corner  of  a 
 house  where  it  has  a  little  bit  little 
 bit  more  protection  you  see  how  I  have 
 mine  where  it's  protected  from  the 
 clusium  on  one  side  and  then  it's  got 
 some  palm  tree  canopy  above  it  and  it 
 just  really  obviously  likes  this  space 
 so  um  this  plant  can  handle  cold 
 temperatures  all  the  way  into  the  high 
 20s  it  will  freeze  back  cut  it  back  make 
 sure  it's  nice  and  mulched  around  it  and 
 then  by  Spring  it'll  flush  back  out  so 
 it's  definitely  worth  um  definitely 
 worth  keeping  that  AC  always  kicks  on 
 when  I  do  a  video  sorry  it's  my 
 neighbor's  AC  there  um  this  plant  can 
 easily  be  propagated  as  well  you  have  to 
 do  is  kind  of  um  pull  this  pull  limb 
 down  cut  just  below  the  node  and  then 
 clipped  right  here  and  then  you  can  take 
 that  clipping  and  you  can  put  it  right 
 into  a  pot  you  can  actually  put  it  into 
 the  ground  below  it  like  you  do  a 
 quarterline  um  but  you  want  to  make  sure 
 it's  nice  and  moist  shaded  and  protected 
 if  you  put  it  into  a  good  drain  or  a 
 good  small  pot  with  some  good  soil  in  it 
 put  like  four  or  five  stems  into  one  pot 
 and  then  within  two  months  you'll  have  a 
 nice  root  base  um  when  I  do  put  them  in 
 pots  because  these  have  big  leaves  what 
 I'll  do  is  I'll  cut  off  the  leaf  in  that 
 way  like  this  and 
 then  I'm  sorry  guy  and  that  way  it  just 
 doesn't  weigh  so  much  and  doesn't  put  so 
 much  pressure  but  it  still  gets  some  of 
 that  nutrients  through  that  leaf  so 
 definitely  they're  worth  propagating 
 like  I  mentioned  the  hummingbirds 
 everything  loves  this  plant  um  just  that 
 you  can  just  see  just  how  the  nectar 
 calls  to  these  um  these  pollinators  so 
 I'm  just  I'm  a  big  fan  of  using  them  um 
 they  can  handle  filtered  light  they 
 cannot  handle  full  Shades  so  they  love 
 Morning  Sun  but  by  4:00  it  really  does 
 need  to  have  dyed  down  or  have  some 
 protection  from  the  Sun  or  have  some 
 protection  from  these  um  fronds  um  full 
 shade  it  will  grow  but  you'll  get  very 
 very  little  Blooms  from  them  so  um  but 
 they're  a  fantastic  plant  to  grow  you 
 can  keep  them  at  4T  height  you  can  cut 
 them  back  to  a  desired  height  this  is  an 
 ideal  height  I've  let  them  get  all  the 
 way  to  6t  and  they  do  Branch  out  and 
 become  a  beautiful  thick  clustering  of 
 6ft  blooms  so  um  yeah  I  just  I  put  them 
 here  and  just  wait  for  the  hummingbirds 
 to  come  so  fire  spike  is  definitely  a 
 great  plant  to  work  with  as  far  as  um 
 what  I  use  for  fertilization  believe  it 
 or  not  it  likes  palm  palm  fertilizer  so 
 I  use  8212  so  when  I  fertilize  this  guy 
 um  my  Spindle  Palm  right  next  to  it  I 
 use  the  same  fertilizer  for  it  and  it 
 seems  to  really  eat  it  up  of  course 
 blooming  fertilizer  works  just  the  same 
 but  it  seems  to  be  very  very  happy  with 
 palm  fertilizer  so  you  know  go  with  what 
 works  um  as  far  as  the  companion  plants 
 that  I  plant  around  it  because  it  is  a 
 bushy  big  leaf  plant  it's  always  the 
 backdrop  it's  always  the  plant  that  is 
 in  the  rear  of  other  plants  that  show 
 off  in  front  of  it  so  as  you  can  see  I 
 have  some  um  Agave  the  false  agave  here 
 I've  got  some  um  seos  here  but  it  I  def 
 I  definitely  don't  want  to  pair  it  with 
 something  that's  going  to  compete  with 
 it  too  aggressively  so  I've  got  some 
 sesia  but  they're  way  over  there  cuz  if 
 if  not  they  would  really  compete  with 
 all  that  heaviness  that's  here  so 
 they're  a  perfect  corner  piece  perfect 
 for  a  corner  area  perfect  for  a 
 courtyard  that  type  of  planting  so  uh  if 
 I  miss  anything  you  guys  please  um  list 
 it  in  the  comments  down  below  I'd  be 
 happy  to  answer  any  other  questions  on 
 it  but  it's  a  very  cool  plant  to  have 
 and  you  know  we're  trying  to  get  more 
 and  more  humming  birds  to  come  our  way 
 so  please  plant  them  in  your  garden  all 
 right  um  don't  forget  to  like  And 
 subscribe  and  check  out  us  check  us  out 
 on  Instagram  and  I  will  see  you  in  the 
 very  next  video  com  oh  and  comment  true 
 Gardener  cuz  you're  a  true  Gardener  if 
 you  made  it  through  the  video  thank  you 
 so  much  I  will  see  you  next  week 
 [Music]

---

 [Music] 
 hey  you  guys  welcome  back  so  we  are  at 
 tour  11  this  Garden  Tour  is  going  to  be 
 so  much  fun  I  have  not  had  a  chance  to 
 visit  it  for  uh  I  guess  a  couple  years 
 now  and  it  is  turned  out  so  beautifully 
 it  is  the  jungle  that  my  clients  um 
 Damon  and  Linda  uh  asked  for  and  it 
 really  really  has  turned  into  such  a 
 peaceful  I  don't  know  it's  um  they  got 
 that  botanical  Garden  feel  but  we're 
 getting  ready  to  tour  through  water 
 features  and  Pathways  and  you  know  just 
 kind  of  just  I  think  this  is  this  Garden 
 has  everything  for  the  senses  it  is  um 
 we're  just  coming  out  of  winter  so  you 
 know  bear  with  um  bear  with  that  between 
 the  winter  and  the  falling  leaves  you 
 know  it's  it's  definitely  got  its  you 
 know  it's  got  its  charms  but  it's  also 
 got  its  rusticness  with  that  um  but  it's 
 really  become  one  of  my  favorite  Gardens 
 it's  really  become  the  just  that 
 tropical  jle  that  um  that  I  would  I've 
 always  wanted  to  create  so  they  um 
 they've  taken  such  great  care  of  it  and 
 it  just  looks  so  beautiful  I  cannot  wait 
 to  share  it  with  you  guys  I'm  going  to 
 list  a  lot  of  the  plant  and  tree  names 
 but  keep  in  mind  there's  a  lot  to  go 
 over  here  so  there's  I'm  going  to  miss 
 some  things  so  whatever  I  do  miss  please 
 stick  at  the  Tim  stamp  down  below  if 
 you'd  like  to  know  the  name  of  it  and  I 
 will  address  it  in  the  comments  but  um 
 but  yeah  you  know  grab  that  glass  of 
 wine  or  cup  of  coffee  or  a  cup  of  tea 
 and  you  know  just  kind  of  walk  and  talk 
 with  me  and  um  I  I  really  hope  that  you 
 know  I  hope  you  guys  enjoy  this  Garden 
 as  much  as  I  do  I've  got  to  spend  a 
 little  bit  of  time  here  this  morning  and 
 it's  just  I  don't  know  I'm  just  happy  to 
 be  here  so  I  hope  you  guys  are  happy  to 
 be  here  with  me  so  um  Bryce  is  behind 
 the  camera  today  and  I  am  going  to  hang 
 on  to  this  little  microphone  because  you 
 guys  probably  noticed  that  um  I'm  losing 
 my  voice  so  um  I'm  going  to  um  I  want 
 you  to  be  able  to  hear  everything  that 
 that  we're  we're  going  to  talk  about 
 today  so  um  but  yeah  this  is  this  is 
 going  to  be  a  fun  tour  and  I  am  excited 
 to  walk  and  talk  with  you  so  let's  do  it 
 so  right  here  um  Bryce  this  is  the  first 
 water  feature  so  this  water  feature 
 itself  is  um  one  that  we  created  for 
 pretty  much  for  the  viewing  angle  of  the 
 house  so  all  of  their  Windows  bedroom  um 
 kitchen  living  room  all  of  the  windows 
 look  out  this  way  so  they  wanted  to  see 
 a  layering  of  palm  trees  and  so  what  we 
 wanted  to  do  was  bring  in  enough  height 
 on  this  water  feature  where  they  really 
 got  to  see  the  white  water  and  the 
 movement  and  of  course  the  sound  of  what 
 this  feature  offers  all  the  way  inside 
 and  when  they're  entertaining  and 
 enjoying  on  the  patio  so  it  really 
 really  does  do  that  now  when  you  bring 
 in  something  like  this  with  this  much 
 height  you  really  have  to  have  enough  um 
 behind  it  and  around  it  so  that  the  way 
 the  water  feature  doesn't  feel  like  it's 
 popping  up  out  of  nowhere  it's  it's 
 engulfed  within  a  landscape  so  the  first 
 thing  that  we  chose  to  do  is  bring  in  a 
 um  a  swing  and  have  it  kind  of  r  raised 
 a  little  bit  elevated  on  the  right  side 
 of  the  water 
 feature  and  then  we  we  put  in  a  just  a 
 backing  of  palm  trees  to  really  give 
 this  area  a  very  backdrop  of  a  tropical 
 feel  so  we'll  start  with  the  Bry  let's 
 start  with  the  tree  on  the  corner  right 
 here  isn't  that  a  gorgeous  fox  tail  Palm 
 it's  just  absolutely  a  stunner  and  it 
 really  does  anchor  the  end  of  this 
 planting  bed  over  here  and  then  right 
 behind  the  um  the  swing  itself  we've  got 
 a  triangle  fan  pal 
 right  to  the  back  of  that  triangle  fan 
 palm  just  down  below  um  to  the  left  of 
 it  you'll  see  that's  a  blue  Latin  Palm 
 so  it's  kind  of  a  smaller  version  of  his 
 big  brother  which  is  the  centerpiece 
 Palm  right  here  which  is  a  bismar  palm 
 so  that  bismar  Palm  is  just  striking 
 with  its  size  and  its  color  and  it's 
 just  got  such  a  big  impact  in  really 
 really  a  bright  spot  in  the  middle  of 
 the  garden  so  this  guy  over  here  the 
 blue  Latin  Palm  is  not  going  to  get 
 nearly  that  size  it  has  a  smaller 
 overall  head  and  a  smaller  overall  tree 
 but  it  will  also  have  a  silver  tone  to 
 the  frond  with  a  little  bit  of  the 
 rening  um  stemming  on  the  um  on  the 
 actual  frond  which  makes  it  really  a 
 cool  interesting  tree  and  then  flanking 
 each  side  of  the  water  features  are 
 these  two  smaller  fan-like  palm  trees 
 and  these  are  called  livistonia  fvas  and 
 these  guys  are  super  super  slow  growing 
 little  trees  so  they  probably  in  over 
 the  last  few  years  only  grown  you  know 
 maybe  a  foot  at  most  most  um  they've 
 just  they're  they're  a  tree  that  that  in 
 Florida  that  you  don't  get  very  often  it 
 when  you  actually  plant  it  it  stays 
 where  it's  planted  so  that  tree  grows  so 
 slow  that  it  takes  a  very  very  long  time 
 for  it  to  outgrow  any  landscape  so  I 
 thought  it's  going  to  be  perfect 
 flanking  the  corners  of  this  water 
 feature  it  always  be  big  bushy  and  thick 
 so  um  on  the  right  side  here  as  you  guys 
 know  I  love  the  Obi  Island  Palm  now  our 
 winter  has  been  brutal  with  the  winds  so 
 this  Island  Palm  you  can  see  how 
 tattered  the  leaves  are  it's  really 
 really  struggling  to  keep  up  with  all  of 
 that  winter  Leaf  I  know  during  the 
 summer  it's  going  to  flush  out  and 
 really  become  the  stunner  that  it's 
 meant  to  be  and  then  over  on  the  left 
 side  now  because  that  right  side  has 
 some  height  we  wanted  some  height  here 
 so  we  brought  in  a  little  planter  and 
 put  in  a  dune  palm  and  doing  super  super 
 well  that  Dune  Palm  as  a  nice  focal 
 point  as  a  nice  anchor  to  the  edge  of 
 this  water 
 feature  so  um  right  to  the  back  now  this 
 tree  is  is  um  recovering  from  the  burn 
 unfortunately  but  this  tree  here  is 
 um  a  Fiji  pal  and  I'll  show  you  what 
 this  looks  like  as  it's  grown  maybe  I'll 
 get  Bryce  to  slide  in  a  picture  because 
 it's  not  a  very  good  representation  of 
 it  a  Fiji  pal  and  I  just  love  this  giant 
 frond  now  this  is  a  little  tree  with  big 
 frond  so  it  to  me  it  makes  a  great  big 
 impact  it's  almost  like  a  lime  green 
 light  colored  palm  and  you  really  do 
 notice  it  when  I  peep  around  the  corner 
 it  is  it  really  is  striking  so  um  it  I 
 know  I  know  winter  did  harm  to  it  but 
 it's  going  to  flush  back  out  and  become 
 a  gorgeous  big  fanned  palm  tree  here  so 
 I  cannot  wait  and  then  we've  also  got 
 another  Fox  steel  Palm  here  that  is  um 
 really  just  robust  and  beautiful  in  this 
 space  and  if  you  can  kind  of  see  it's 
 kind  of  a  rinse  and 
 repeat  Bry  is  like 
 squirrel  hi  you  cutie 
 so  it's  kind  of  like  a  rinse  and  repeat 
 we  started  with  the  fox  tail  on  that 
 corner  and  then  that  was  like  the  start 
 of  the  bed  to  give  us  the  punch  the 
 impact  for  the  space  and  then  we  ended 
 this  corner  area  um  with  another  fox 
 tail  and  this  is  kind  of  like  one  to  me 
 one  Vista  when  you're  looking  at  the 
 Landscaping  from  the  seating  section 
 over  there  this  is  like  one  room  in  the 
 garden  and  that's  what  I  love  about  it 
 you've  got  your  water  feature  you've  got 
 your  seating  section  you've  got  your  you 
 know  you  just  I  don't  know  you  just  have 
 your  pathway  you  have  you  have  a  lot  of 
 impact  in  this  one  space  and  this  is  a 
 space  that  where  when  you  look  out  in 
 the  garden  you  almost  see  the  whole 
 Garden  in  this  area  which  I  think  is 
 fantastic  because  the  rest  of  the  garden 
 is  more  like  you  got  to  had  to  walk 
 around  and  through  and  under  the  fronds 
 and  it's  more  of  a  secret 
 garden  so  I  love  that  this  is  the 
 Forefront  garden  and  then  we  make  our 
 way  through  to 
 the  walkway  spaces  and  I'll  get  Bryce  to 
 slide  in  a  before  picture  looking  over 
 at  this  space  of  what  used  to  be  here 
 the  old  um  the  old  shed  that  was  here 
 this  was  pretty  much  a  fenced  area  that 
 was  here  that  was  just  not  not  a  whole 
 lot  done  with  it  and  now  it's  the  garden 
 they  wanted  to  feel  like  they  were  going 
 to  walk  underneath  a  Botanical  or  walk 
 through  a  Botanical  Garden  as  their  as 
 their  own  yard  and  I  think  that  they're 
 well  on  their  way  to  that  because  it's 
 it's  really  taking  off  and  starting  to 
 become  that  we  started  the  pathway  with 
 a  disappearing  water  feature  this  water 
 feature  ear  has  a  100-gallon  reservoir 
 down  below  and  it  just  kind  of  gives  you 
 a  nice  bubbling  effect  they  put  it  right 
 near  the  bird  feeder  which  I  think  is  so 
 Charming  because  they  get  so  much  bird 
 action  in  this  Garden  um  obviously  you 
 can  tell  from  all  of  the  under  all  of 
 the  big  oak  trees  and  you  know  just  it 
 they  just  they  just  get  so  much  Wildlife 
 out  here  it's  just  it's  just  it's  got  to 
 be  crazy  entertaining  so  tons  of  leaf 
 vage  so  um  so  this  um  this  is  a  perfect 
 bird  bath  location  so  this  gives  you  a 
 nice  little  shelf  right  here  holds  just 
 enough  water  and  just  enough  bubbling 
 here  to  make  that  water  where  it's 
 movement  where  the  birds  absolutely  love 
 to  come  up  here  and  just  bathe  which  I 
 think  is  so  cool  and  I  like  that  it's 
 the  start  of  the  pathway  so  we  have  a 
 pathway  that  kind  of  you  know  comes  to 
 this  area  and  goes  out  this  way  and  goes 
 out  that  way  and  then  we  have  one  that 
 starts  going  out  that  way  for  a  future 
 project  so  um  they're  just  really  going 
 to  real  again  they're  going  to  feel  like 
 they're  going  through  a  garden  the  only 
 thing  that  was  here  originally  was  this 
 little  pathway  that  led  to  a  little 
 beastro  table  that  sat  here  and 
 everything  else  was  just  kind  of  grass 
 and  and  sand  so  um  yeah  so  it's  just 
 really  really  taken  off  into  its  own  its 
 own  Wonderland  which  I  love  so  Bryce 
 which  way  should  we  go  um 
 let's  um  let's  make  our  way  to  let's 
 make  our  way  right  down  the  path 
 here  so  I'm  a  fan  of  Curves  if  you  guys 
 haven't  noticed  that  and  I  anytime  I  can 
 find  a  curved  palm  tree  I  pick  one  of 
 those  guys  up  because  I  just  think  that 
 they  just  add  that  um  bit  of  Whimsy  in 
 the  garden  so  I  have  got  a  curved  pyate 
 Palm  right  here  and  I  love  how  it  just 
 forks  and  angles  at  this  corner  of  the 
 um  of  the  the  center  of  the  the  walkway 
 path 
 and  then  Bryce  if  you  turn  around  this 
 way  you'll  really  get  to  see  the  pathway 
 which  is  probably  my  favorite  part  of 
 the  garden  and  I'm  going  to  go  this  way 
 and  kind  of  show  you  this  area  right 
 here  I  just  feel  like  I'm  in  the  forest 
 I  love  love  love  this  under  canopy  even 
 the  temperature  drops  right  here  you 
 guys  it's  just  so  nice  I  can  just  feel 
 that  little  bit  of  coolness  it  is  just 
 every  every  even  when  we  were  doing  this 
 I  was  feeling  the  magic  start  to  happen 
 of  course  at  that  time  everything  was 
 still  more  open  but  I  knew  that  it  was 
 really  going  to  come  over  and  fold  over 
 and  really  kind  of  create  that  perfect 
 tropical  hammock  feel  and  I  really  do 
 think  it  it  turned  out  that  way  I  just  I 
 love  the  natural  feel  of  it  so  so  this 
 garden  now  the  grade  shifts  downwards 
 here  so  we  used  um  tahan  gray  Granite  as 
 our  main  Stone  and  then  we  outlined  it 
 with  aluminum  alloy  edging  and  to  me 
 that  gives  a  pathway  a  natural  and 
 rustic  pathway  we  didn't  want  anything 
 too  polished  here  because  we  are  really 
 falling  in  line  with  a  very  natural 
 space  a  very  a  very  Botanical  Garden 
 kind  of  feels  so  we  use  Congo  Rojo 
 Congos  as  the  base  to  this  tree 
 here  and  then  ceria  Palms  on  the  corner 
 to  kind  of  create  and  enclose  that  wall 
 so  that's  what  helped  us  create  this 
 enclosed  pathway  where  these 
 guys  and  then  the  buffer  really 
 continues  you  guys  know  how  I  love  how 
 to  squeeze  a  space  together  with  a 
 pathway  and  then  opens  up  to  another 
 another  area  to  me  it's  again  unfolding 
 different  rooms  in  a  garden  and  this  is 
 no  um  this  is  no  different  in  this 
 particular  space  so  so  we  continued  on 
 down  down  the  pathway  here  Bryce  and 
 then  we've  got  an  A  pendo  palm 
 here  we've  got  a  beautiful  bottle  pal 
 here  and  then  when  you  get  over  here 
 near  this  little  beastro 
 table  we've  got 
 two  cold  old  coconuts  or  Alfred  palms 
 and  right  here  oh  my  gosh  can  you  guys 
 hear  that  I  don't  know  if  you  can  pick 
 that  up  or  not  but  the  sound  when  that 
 breeze  goes  just  the  sound  of  these 
 fronds  I  love  it  so  these  guys  are  cold 
 coconut  palms  than  what's  creating  our 
 little  roof  line  that's  here  um  or 
 Alfred  Palms  is  what  their  um  what  their 
 name  is  and  they're  called  cold  coconuts 
 because  they  have  a  very  very  similar 
 elongated  Leaf  like  a  coconut  palm  um 
 but  the  benefits  to  those  versus  the 
 Coconuts  is  that  um  they  can  handle  cold 
 temperatures  they  can  handle 
 temperatures  down  into  the  20s  which  is 
 great  for  a  palm  tree  and  they  also  they 
 look  like  a  coconut  but  they  don't 
 produce  a  coconut  coconut  so  you  can  put 
 them  in  places  where  if  you  want  to 
 create  a  hammock  and  you  don't  have  to 
 worry  about  coconuts  falling  on  you  or 
 if  you  want  to  put  them  near  a  pool  area 
 you  absolutely  can  because  you  don't 
 again  have  to  worry  about  coconuts  so 
 and  then  the  third  benefit  to  this  tree 
 versus  the  coconut  palm  benefit  or 
 negative  depending  on  you  know  how  much 
 time  you  have  and  a  garden  they  grow  so 
 so  slow  so  these  trees  really  they  take 
 their  time  you're  getting  6  in  to  Max  a 
 foot  a  year  on  these  guys  and  um  they're 
 they're  just  a  very  very  very  very  slow 
 grower  um  for  for  what  you  get  for  them 
 so  they  really  do  stay  put  in  an  area 
 and  then  the  backing  to  these  trees  so 
 again  we  wanted  to  create  a  wall  here 
 originally  this  was  all  open  and  you  can 
 see  the  screen  room  behind  us  um  and  we 
 wanted  to  make  this  more  of  a  romantic 
 little  seating  section  and  um  my  clients 
 have  told  me  many  times  they've  come 
 here  and  had  had  um  their  coffee  and 
 just  and  sat  and  enjoyed  the  space  and 
 it  was  just  so  just  a  little  refreshing 
 little  little  area  away  it  felt  like  to 
 me  it  feels  like  we're  sitting  in  a  park 
 somewhere  so  um  but  so  we  chose  to 
 create  walls  with  these  um  bamboo  so 
 these  are  called  graceful  bamboo  these 
 are  a  clumping  variety  bamboo  so  these 
 will  um  easy  to  maintain  really  really 
 easy  to  work  with  and  I  think  that 
 they're  going  to  be  a  fantastic  and 
 we've  kind  of  got  them  patched  through 
 all  the  way  around  the  um  cabbage  Palms 
 in  this 
 area 
 so  you  know  since  we  had  a  water  feature 
 there  um  in  the  front  and  I  know  that 
 was  a  big  focal  point  water  feature  they 
 kind  of  wanted  you  know  this  is  the  back 
 little  area  of  the  back  little  corner  so 
 we  just  did  a  little  Babbling  Brook  here 
 nothing  nothing  crazy  just  something 
 that  gave  them  a  little  bit  of  sound  of 
 trickling  water  something  that  kind  of 
 gave  you  a  reason  to  come  to  this  back 
 corner  so  um  we  have  a  little  Brook  that 
 goes  here  we  backed  it  with  a  pendo  pal 
 behind  us  to  give  us  a  little  bit  of 
 that  silver 
 tone  the  client  recently  put  a  banana 
 tree  there  um  that's  really  doing  well 
 it's  an  ornamental  banana  so  I  don't 
 think  it's  producing  anything  but  I 
 think  it's  just  an  ornamental  so  and 
 then  we  kind  of  created  another  backing 
 cuz  right  across  from  there  is  the 
 neighbor's  house  so  we  brought  in  a  um 
 Canary  Island  date  pal  as  I  I  just  love 
 how  they  create  like  a  fountain  in  the 
 garden  themselves  you  know  they're  very 
 compact  at  the  bottom  and  then  spray  out 
 and  open  up  at  the  top  and  I  just  think 
 that's  gorgeous  and  then  we  have  a  trio 
 of  pygmy  date  palms  actually  we  have 
 four  pygmy  datee  Palms  in  there  we've 
 got  one  two  three  four  so  we  got  four 
 Pigg  meat  a  poms  in  there  to  give  us 
 kind  of  a  a  nice  bit  of  shelter  from  the 
 neighbor's  um  uh  house  that's  up  there 
 and  they've  got  a  um  air  hanger  which  is 
 a  giant  metal  building  um  right  behind 
 this  spot  so  they  wanted  that  to  have 
 some  closure  some  you  know  some 
 concealment  so  I  think  we  were  able  to 
 accomplish  that  and  then  the  rest  of 
 this  um  goes  into  more  of  a  a  softer 
 Little  Island  planting  we've  got  a 
 coconut  palm  here  that  is  really  taken 
 off  I  bet  this  guy's  grown  six  foot 
 since  we  put  him  in  the  ground  and  uh 
 that's  what  coconut  palms 
 do  and  then  we  have  a  couple  little  just 
 just  the  islands  that  kind  of  pop  out 
 now  this  is  um  this  is  something  the 
 client  is  doing  on  her  own  she's 
 continuing  her  garden  um  this  is  a  great 
 Vine  everything  is  still  dormant  right 
 now  but  I  think  um  she's  got  a  mixture 
 of  grapes  that  are  going  to  go  out  here 
 and  then  she's  got  some  lemongrass  to 
 kind  of  buffer  the  two  areas  and  then 
 she's  planning  and  just  started  her  um 
 her  Garden  area  and  we'll  we'll  give  her 
 some  privacy  there  on  that  but  she's 
 yeah  she's  really  she's  really  busy  in 
 the  garden  and  I  just  I  love  that  I  love 
 that  this  has  encouraged  her  and  given 
 her  um  you  know  just  given  her  a  reason 
 to  come  and  and  create  more  and  more 
 back  here  so  I  cannot  wait  to  to  do  more 
 within  this  space 
 we  have  a  couple  more  um  Canary  Islands 
 back  here  just  to  kind  of  give  us  some 
 roof 
 coverage  and  then  Bryce  if  you  look  back 
 this  way  you  kind  of  see  that  metal 
 building  that  I  was  talking 
 about  and  the  house  so  these  are  our  two 
 things  that  we  were  buffering  from  the 
 little  seating  section  so  the  house  is 
 there  and  then  their  met  metal  building 
 to  the 
 right  and  that's  that's  kind  of  the 
 purpose  for  all  the  layers  of  the  trees 
 that  we  chose  we  have  some  fire  spikes 
 that  are  coming  in  these  magenta  fire 
 spikes  are  really  drawing  in  the 
 hummingbirds  so  it's  a  great  little 
 addition  great  little  pollinators  in 
 this  area  for  um  for  her  vegetable 
 gardens  I'm  sure  we're  going  to  bring  be 
 bringing  in  even  more  and  more  flowers 
 to  try  to  um  to  try  to  get  them  here  and 
 to  get  them  to  uh  get  a  full-time  job 
 here  we'll  come  back  through  um  the 
 other 
 pathway  and  share  that  with  you  guys 
 you  feel  that  temperature  change  price 
 it's  just  isn't  that 
 crazy  so  this  was  an  old  shed  that  has 
 been  refurbished  and  now  is  a  she  shed 
 and  a  potting  shed  and  she  just  she  just 
 stays  so  busy  Linda  does  um  just 
 recreating  and  creating  her  own  garden 
 so  she's  really  been  enjoying  this  space 
 and  and  you  can  definitely  tell  it  um  so 
 we've  got  another  curved  pendo  Palm  kind 
 of  anchoring  this  point  and  I've  got 
 some  more  Alfred  Palms  so  that  little 
 Landscaping  bed  over  there  is  is  to  kind 
 of  buffer  the  shed  itself  um  from  for 
 the  HOA  to  buffer  the  shed  itself  from 
 the  roads  so  it's  kind  of  a  nice  little 
 front  planting  there  and  then  you  lead 
 back  into  this 
 way  and  I  found  these  really  cool 
 lanterns  and  then  she's  um  this  is 
 something  that  she's  created  since  in 
 the  garden  to  kind  of  really  give  her 
 her  own  little  tool  area  which  gosh  I'm 
 kind  of  jealous  I  I  wish  I  had  myself 
 so  here  is  the  backing  to  what  where  we 
 were  just  standing  um  so  this  is  a 
 better  angle  of  those  um  of  those 
 graceful  bamboos  you  can  really  see  what 
 kind  of  walls  they've  become  just  how 
 thick  and  dark  and  green  they  are  and 
 now  we  can  trim  these  and  keep  these  out 
 of  the  canopies  of  the  trees  that's 
 what's  great  about  the  graceful  bamboos 
 you  can  almost  treat  them  like  a  hedge 
 so  we're  just  um  waiting  to  get  them 
 where  they're  nice  and  thick  and  full 
 all  over  so  that  way  we  can  come  through 
 and  take  about  4ot  off  the  top  of  them 
 and  really  just  let  them  be  almost  like 
 a  giant  Bush  filling  in  that  spot  and 
 then  here  we've  got  a  mix  of  quarter 
 lines  um  boleros  and  FAS  and  just  a 
 little  bit  of  color  along  the 
 walkway  and  just  like  any  place  if  you 
 guys  have  a  dab  of  um  need  a  dab  of 
 brightness  and  little  bit  of  light  in 
 the  garden  look  at  how  well  these  um 
 Bonia  odadas  these  perennials  are 
 holding  up  in  this  in  this  spot  now  this 
 area  gets  hit  with  acorns  and  you  know 
 leaves  and  constant  foliage  falling  on 
 it  from  these  giant  trees  above  it  and 
 they've  just  handled  it  like  Champs  so 
 you  know  I  know  they  look  like  a 
 delicate  plant  but  don't  be  afraid  to 
 use  them  because  they  are  they're 
 they're  Troopers  in  a  garden  use  them  as 
 a  little  cluster  planting  they 
 definitely  you  can't  just  plant  one  you 
 want  to  make  sure  that  they  have 
 something  to  lean  on  so  cuz  they're 
 going  to  need  that  for  support  but  once 
 they  do  they're  tough  they're  they're 
 perfect  in  a  garden  so  so  this  is  going 
 to  be  a  future  phase  but  we'll  let  you 
 kind  of 
 see  how  cool  these  curved  coconuts  are 
 back 
 here  so  as  we're  walking  to  the  back 
 side  of  the  water  feature  I  wanted  to 
 Showcase  just  kind  of  so  you  could  see 
 what  was  behind  what  we  were  just 
 looking  at  but  so  we've  got  some 
 beautiful  FAS  that  are  clustered  there 
 as  a  nice  little  grouping  that  give  that 
 pop  of  color  right  by  the  walkway  right 
 behind  the  bench  and  then  these  filad 
 drian  looms  um  down  below  which  are 
 really  starting  to  thicken  up  and  and 
 open  up  and  will  become  a  nice  big  green 
 bedding  to  the  back  and  they'll  get 
 about  10  foot  tall  so  from  the  front 
 they'll  really  you'll  be  able  to  see 
 this  big  giant  Leaf  from  the  front  in  no 
 time  and  then  um  just  look  at  these 
 coconuts  I  just  you  know  what  put  a 
 curve  into  anything  and  I'll  buy  it  just 
 I  just  love  curved  palm  trees  when  I  saw 
 these  in  the  garden  or  saw  those  in  the 
 nursery  I'm  like  I  just  had  to  have  them 
 they've  grown  a  good  six  or  seven  foot 
 as  well  and  really  are  taking  off  in 
 this  space  so  um  again  we've  got  some 
 filad  andrians  here  and  some  Burl  marks 
 behind  the  water  feature  but  yeah  we've 
 just  kind  of  made  our  way 
 around  and  that  brings  us  to  the  end  of 
 the  backyard  tour  so  I  hope  this  is  a  um 
 I  hope  this  was  a  fun  video  for  you  guys 
 cuz  I  was  really  excited  to  do  it  it's 
 just  turned  out  so  gorgeous  and  you  know 
 it's  it's  definitely  um  that  rustic  kind 
 of  park-  like  setting  that  I  really 
 really  wanted  it  to  become  and  when  you 
 have  oak  trees  and  you  have  a  lot  of 
 canopy  coverage  then  you  know  you  really 
 do  have  to  play  with  nature  because  it 
 plays  right  back  so  um  so  yeah  I  will  um 
 I  will  see  you  guys  in  the  next  video  oh 
 before  I  do  please  like  subscribe  and 
 and  definitely  comment  true  Gardener 
 because  this  has  to  be  a  long  video  and 
 then  I  will  um  again  see  you  guys  in  the 
 next  video  a  lot  of  the  plants  that  you 
 saw  in  here  I  am  going  to  be  doing  a 
 plant  the  week  Series  so  check  that 
 series  out  because  a  lot  of  those  are 
 going  to  be  highlighted  through  every 
 single  week  and  it'll  tell  you 
 everything  you  need  to  know  or  at  least 
 everything  that  I  know  about  that 
 particular  plant  or  tree  and  that  way 
 you  can  determine  if  it's  going  to  fit 
 into  your  space  so  hopefully  um 
 hopefully  you  found  something  within  the 
 garden  that  you're  like  ah  I  didn't  know 
 that  works  here  but  now  I  can  use  it  so 
 for  those  of  you  guys  who  need  more  than 
 inspiration  and  are  looking  to  have  some 
 landscape  work  done  then  reach  out  to  us 
 um  we  are  in  virau  Beach  area  but  we 
 work  all  the  way  from  um  um  from  the 
 Meritt  Island  Coco  Beach  area  all  the 
 way  down  the  coast  to  obviously 
 Sebastian  virau  Beach  um  into  Stewart 
 and  Jupiter  area  so  we  go  as  far  south 
 as  Jupiter  Florida  and  be  happy  to  meet 
 with  you  and  walk  through  your  garden 
 together  um  we  do  a  a  design  for  every 
 landscape  installation  that  we  do  so  we 
 design  and  install  and  um  bring  in  all 
 the  material  do  all  the  demo  of  the 
 removal  and  it's  our  in-house 
 installation  team  so  we  work  hand  inand 
 to  from  concept  to  complete  to  kind  of 
 bring  the  job  to  a  finish  so  we  very 
 happy  to  meet  with  you  I'll  list  our 
 contact  information  and  website  down 
 below  check  out  the  how  it  works  page 
 it'll  tell  you  way  more  that  I  don't 
 have  to  get  in  detail  on  this  video 
 about  but  in  that  way  you  guys  can 
 determine  if  we're  going  to  be  a  good 
 fit  for  you  so  okay  H  with  that  out  of 
 the  way  I  uh  I  will  see  you  guys  in  the 
 very  next  video  hold  I  my  Cameo  he  has  a 
 cameo  oh  just  going  to  point  it  towards 
 us  can  we  both  see  it  oh  okay  sure  see 
 this  is  why  I  don't  do  the  videoing  I 
 don't  even  know  if  they  can  see  us  but 
 we'll  figure  out  like  we're  both  holding 
 it  now  probably  point  at  the  sky  all  I 
 was  going  to  say  is  just  make  sure  you 
 follow  us  on  Instagram  so  they  can  post 
 a  little  bit  more  updated  this  is 
 hard  uh  follow  us  on  Instagram  so  you 
 can  see  a  lot  more  updated  pictures  and 
 videos  and  see  a  lot  of  progress  of 
 what's  happening  in  most  of  these  yards 
 the  step-by-step  processes  instead  of 
 the  before  and  afters  really  but  that's 
 really  it  so  thanks  for  watching  guys 
 see  you  in  the  next  one  see  you  oh 
 that's  tough  I  don't  like  that 
 [Music]

---

 [Music] 
 so  hey  you  guys  welcome  back  for  another 
 Garden  Tour  so  this  is  Garden  Tour  10 
 this  is  a  uh  front  yard  landscape  that 
 we  did  about  about  nine  10  months  ago 
 it's  really  coming  in  so  well  I'm  using 
 some  of  my  favorite  plants  and  trees 
 I'll  be  sure  to  list  everything  on  the 
 screen  just  like  normal  and  of  course  on 
 this  video  I'm  going  to  have  Bryce  put 
 the  captions  on  the  bottom  because  I 
 just  had  four  wisdom  teeth  pulled  a 
 couple  days 
 ago  um  I  hope  you  can  understand 
 everything  that  I'm  saying  but  when  you 
 have  your  creative  team  which  is  AKA 
 Bryce  um  help  helping  you  do  videos  you 
 got  to  put  him  to  work  when  he's  here  so 
 so  we're  gonna  bang  out  a  couple  tours 
 for  you  guys  today  chubby  cheeks  and  all 
 okay  so  this  is  the  front  yard  um  this 
 is  my  client  Kathy  Kelly  they  did  a  they 
 have  a  beautiful  home  um  in  Vero  Beach 
 and  it  is  what  I  would  consider  a 
 typical  Suburban  front  yard  you  know  the 
 neighbors  are  fairly  close 
 it's  a  small  community  it's  called 
 Arabella  if  you  guys  are  in  our  area  and 
 um  and  it's  it's  got  some  you  know  tough 
 tough  soil  tough  soil  here  so  we  had 
 some  amendments  to  do  but  I  can  tell  the 
 Amendments  really  really  worked  because 
 the  plants  and  trees  are  really  coming 
 to  life  doing  so  so  well  here  so  I'm 
 going  to  list  the  plant  and  tree  names 
 like  I  normally  do  I'll  be  sure  to  put 
 them  on  the  screen  for  a  shopping  list 
 for  you  guys  but  overall  I  just  kind  of 
 want  to  share  with  you  um  what  we  did  so 
 we  took  out  what  was  currently  here 
 Incorporated  a  palm  tree  on  on  each  side 
 so  you  can  really  see  that  we  love  to 
 Anchor  with  these  fox  tail  palms  so  a 
 fox  tail  Palm  here  you  can  really  see 
 the  difference  in  the  fox  tail  Palm  over 
 there  you  can  kind  of  see  the  difference 
 between  the  fox  tail  palms  and  how  well 
 the  soil  is  in  this  particular  Garden 
 versus  the  neighboring  garden  and  you 
 guys  I'm  not  I'm  not  pointing  fingers  or 
 anything  all  I'm  saying  is  you've  heard 
 that  saying  where  You'  rather  put  a  50- 
 cent  plant  in  a  $5  hole  than  a  $5  plant 
 in  a  50  Cent  hole  it's  so  true  amend  the 
 soil  that  is  huge  with  the  new 
 Landscaping  even  if  you're  just  taking  a 
 few  bags  to  to  mix  in  with  your  existing 
 soil  that  help  so  so  much  we  do  that 
 with  every  single  landscape  that  used  to 
 be  a  norm  in  the  landscape  World  why 
 it's  not  I  don't  know  anymore  but  it  is 
 part  of  our  practice  so  I  always 
 encourage  everybody  to  do  that  because 
 it  really  makes  a  difference  on  how  well 
 your  beautiful  plants  and  trees  are  when 
 they're  planted  and  how  well  they  stay 
 and  how  how  and  how  they  stay  gorgeous 
 overall  so  all  right  so  let's  start  here 
 at  the  edge  so  this  is  a  fox  tail  palm 
 and  then  to  the  back  of  these  guys  now 
 they've  just  been  recently  trimmed 
 unfortunately  but  you  can  see  this  to 
 the  back  area  is  Louisiana  red  copper 
 leaves  also  called  Rojo  red  copper 
 leaves  but  they  really  are  going  to  make 
 a  nice  six  foot  backdrop  to  this  bed 
 kind  of  creating  a  little  bit  of  wall  to 
 the  backside  of  the  garden  when  you're 
 looking  at  it  from  the 
 road  from  the  front  these  are  Blaze 
 copper  leaves  so  these  are  also  they're 
 both  in  the  same  family  these  are  just  a 
 dwarf  variety  of  those  and  these  can  be 
 kept  at  3ot  tall  no  problem  I  love  the 
 way  they  connect  in  a  new  planting  um 
 they  really  really  do  flush  out  you  guys 
 have  probably  seen  them  in  my  previous 
 video  where  I  planted  them  and  they  were 
 nice  and  small  this  is  what  they  grow 
 into  now  these  have  also  been  recently 
 trimmed  so  they're  not  quite  as  thick 
 and  Lush  and  and  folding  over  as  they 
 normally  are  but  you  can  really  see  when 
 they  do  what  that  leaf  looks  like  so 
 they  all  look  like  this  versus  all  these 
 cuting  that  you  see  on  the  top  so  really 
 really  nice 
 um  so  the  one  thing  that  we  did  keep  we 
 just  repurposed  these  were  her  original 
 variegated  arbac  colas  all  we  did  is  we 
 took  them  out  from  the  row  that  they 
 were  into  kind  of  giving  us  a  little  hot 
 spot  so  they're  going  to  curve  this  way 
 and  come  forward  they're  still  working 
 that  way  because  we  had  to  work  with 
 existing  sizes  but  this  is  um  her 
 version  and  then  we  added  a  few  to  come 
 this  way  so  they're  going  to  kind  of 
 swoop  in  this  way  as  this  planting  this 
 Blaze  planting  swoops  down  and  swoops 
 this  way  and  then  as  you  can  see  the 
 back  planting  there  swoops  that  way  so 
 we're  really  doing  nice  angled  plantings 
 where  it's  kind  of  a  ying  a  Yang  type  of 
 thing  and  they're  really  um  they're 
 really  blending  super  well  together  and 
 it's  you  can  see  kind  of  the  light  and 
 the  Darks  of  it  all  so  we  got  dark  in 
 the  back  a  bright  spot  of  light  in  the 
 middle  and  then  again  with  a  dark  and 
 color  in  the  front  so  and  then  finished 
 it  off  with  a  bright  coloring  right  in 
 front 
 here  and  then  we've  got  dark  green 
 arbola  in  the  back 
 and  then  they're  framing  this  curvature 
 of  these  two  species  of  plants  are 
 framing  this  double  bottle  Palm  I  love 
 bottle  palms  and  when  I  can  get  them  in 
 multi  trunks  I  do  because  oh  my  goodness 
 isn't  it  gorgeous  I  just  absolutely  love 
 how  tropical  this  tree  is  there  wasn't  a 
 lot  of  room  in  this  space  I  didn't  want 
 to  cover  the  front  of  the  house  too 
 aggressively  but  I  know  it  needed 
 something  on  that  big  blank  wall  and 
 these  just  do  just  enough  I  mean  there's 
 not  many  trees  that  only  offer  four  or 
 five  FRS  per  trunk  bottle  Palms  do  so  if 
 you  want  a  tree  with  some  impact  but  you 
 don't  want  heavy  coverage  this  is  a 
 great  tree  to  use  and  it  grows  super 
 super  slow  I  mean  it  probably  in  in  the 
 eight  or  nine  months  it's  been  here  it 
 probably  hasn't  grown  6  Ines  so  it's 
 absolutely  stunning  so  it  is  one  to 
 splurge  on  because  it  grows  so  slow  get 
 everything  else  small  plantwise  like  the 
 copper  leaves  because  they  grow  like 
 this  things  like  this  bottle  Palm  get 
 them  with  a  little  bit  more  size  to  them 
 so  you  can  really  enjoy  them  pretty 
 quickly  and  then  over  here  we  have  a 
 nice  grouping  of  very  clean  line  of 
 dwarf  exor  now  this  is  exactly  what 
 dwarf  exor  are  meant  to  do  you  guys  I 
 love  love  love  love  how  they're  kept 
 individual  they're  nice  and  tidy  and 
 you'll  notice  that  that's  my  kind  of 
 theme  near  a  walkway  near  a  pathway  near 
 the  pavers  I  take  the  plants  that  are 
 more  paired  back  and  I  keep  it  nice  and 
 tidy  and  clean  so  things  like  blue  my 
 Minds  things  like  dwarf  exor  um  things 
 even  the  Hedge  material  I'll  keep  it 
 that  where  it's  a  nice  tidy  plant 
 grouping  because  it  does  such  a  great 
 job  of  giving  you  a  really  really  sharp 
 divided  clean  line  and  I  think  they're 
 doing  that  so  well  and  then  anchor  it 
 here  with  a  pygmy  day  Palm  now  in  a  lot 
 of  cases  clients  do  not  like  the  um  the 
 trees  in  front  of  the  doors  so  it's  it's 
 it's  one  of  those  things  some  people 
 love  it  some  people  hate  it  this 
 particular  client  Kathy  was  like  you 
 know  I  really  want  anchoring  on  that 
 point  of  the  house  and  this  point  of  the 
 house  and  I  like  to  have  something  with 
 some  impact  here  they've  got  a  fantastic 
 roof  line  here  where  it  really  pops  up 
 so  I  really  thought  it  did  call  for 
 something  thick  and  chunky  right  here  so 
 having  this  at  the  front  I  think  really 
 works  well  I'm  glad  we  were  both  decided 
 to  to  put  this  tree  here  and  then 
 because  these  are  so  formal  so  form 
 fitting  with  the  dwarf  exor  again 
 foxtail  ferns  you  guys  are  going  to  know 
 my  method  so  so  easily  I  love  the  soft 
 fuzziness  fuzziness  of  fox  tail  ferns 
 next  to  something  really  paired  back 
 like  these  dwarf 
 exor  and  then  this  is  a  spot  where 
 nothing  really  does  grow  I  was  kind  of 
 warned  that  this  was  a  tough  area  so  I 
 said  you  know  what  let's  not  fight  it 
 put  a  pot  here  put  some  some  annuals  in 
 here  that  way  she's  got  a  show  of  color 
 right  by  the  front  door  where  she  can 
 keep  it  really  controlled  and  then  we'll 
 just  D  Dash  a  little  bit  of  blue  my 
 Minds 
 in 
 and  that's  pretty  much  it  you  guys  so  we 
 did  a  little  dash  of  the  same  kind  of 
 coloration  on  the  right  side  of  the 
 driveway  and  that  way  we've  got  good 
 balance  from  the  road  but  it's  as  simple 
 as  that  you  know  it's  a  couple  angles  of 
 this  plant  grouping  that  that  matches 
 and  meets  with  this  plant  grouping 
 lights  and  darks  and  controlled  plants 
 in  the  front  controlled  plants  near  a 
 paper  patio  or  a  walkway  and  then  a 
 little  bit  of  wild  and  crazy  on  the 
 edges  where  it  can  get  a  little  crazy 
 without  being  you  know  hitting  you  in 
 the  face  or  hitting  your  friends  in  the 
 face  when  they're  coming  to  your  house 
 you  know  that's  that's  kind  of  the  plan 
 you  know  keep  it  keep  it  very  very 
 simple  and  um  you  there's  not  a  lot  of 
 plants  here  but  I  really  do  think  that 
 it  really  shows  off  the  front  and  for 
 those  of  you  guys  who  need  some 
 additional  landscape  help  then  please 
 reach  out  to  us  we  are  a  landscape 
 design  and  installation  company  and  we 
 do  things  like  you  see  here  so  you  guys 
 make  sure  you  like  And  subscribe  and 
 follow  me  on  Instagram  and  then  U  for 
 those  of  you  guys  who  need  more  than  the 
 inspiration  that  you're  seeing  on  on  my 
 videos  and  you're  looking  to  have  a 
 landscaping  done  then  give  us  a  call  I 
 would  love  to  meet  with  you  and  kind  of 
 see  what  we  can  create  in  your  yard  this 
 is  what  we  do  we  meet  with  you  we  kind 
 of  remove  the  existing  landscape  maybe 
 the  Builder  package  that  you  currently 
 have  and  then  um  come  up  with  a  design 
 to  create  a  whole  new  space  we  purchase 
 material  we  install  it  with  our  in-house 
 installation  crew  we  do  the  final 
 cleanup  and  and  leave  you  with  a 
 beautiful  fully  designed  fully  installed 
 landscape  so  it's  from  concept  to 
 completion  if  that's  what  you're  looking 
 for  then  give  us  a  shout  we'd  love  to  uh 
 meet  meet  with  you  and  see  what  we  can 
 do  in  your  garden  and  I  will  see  you 
 guys  in  the  very  next  Garden  Tour  please 
 leave  a  comment  um  Down  Below  on 
 anything  that  I  may  have  missed  any 
 questions  you  may  have  and  I'd  love  to 
 share  those  things  with  you  guys  so  see 
 [Music] 
 you

---

 hey  you  guys  welcome  back  to  week  three 
 of  our  plant  of  the  week  video  so 
 today's  plant  is  going  to  be  the  king 
 Sego  um  I  am  in  love  with  the  King  Sego 
 pal  I  know  that  some  people  love  them 
 some  people  hate  them  but  today  I'm 
 going  to  focus  on  the  care  and  the  needs 
 of  the  king  SEO  itself  um  so  although 
 it's  called  a  king  SEO  Palm  it  is  not  a 
 palm  it  is  a  pyad  um  one  of  the  things 
 that  I  love  the  most  about  it  is  that 
 structure  it  creates  in  a  garden  so  I 
 have  a  tendency  to  plant  it  in  groups 
 like  you  see  here  I  think  it  does  a 
 fantastic  job  of  clustering  together 
 that  way  if  I've  got  a  lot  of  lush  soft 
 tropical  foliage  in  the  back  these  guys 
 just  kind  of  pop  up  and  are  a  bit 
 dramatic  in  the  garden  so  they  kind  of 
 do  what  um  the  Agave  do  for  me  so  I  put 
 them  in  that  same  grouping  and  I  think 
 they  do  a  fantastic  job  of 
 that  now  one  of  the  things  I  want  to 
 mention  with  the  king  seos  and  you  guys 
 probably  know  this  is  pretty  well 
 widespread  they  are  poisonous  to  animals 
 so  you  do  want  to  keep  them  out  of  the 
 way  of  animals  um  the  leaves  everything 
 about  them  can  be  poisonous  animals  so 
 if  you're  going  to  put  them  in  an 
 environment  you  don't  want  to  keep  them 
 in  the  house  if  you  have  pups  you  don't 
 want  to  keep  them  in  a  pool  area  if  that 
 if  the  dogs  are  around  there  you  want  to 
 kind  of  keep  these  um  separate  from  your 
 animals  but  if  you  do  not  they're  a 
 fantastic  addition  to  your  garden 
 because  when  it  comes  to  trimming  and 
 overall  maintenance  they  are  on  the  low 
 end  you  do  not  need  to  trim  these  guys  I 
 mean  you  you  can  literally  get  away 
 without  trimming  them  um  maybe  every 
 year  and  a  half  I  trim  mine  about  once  a 
 year  I  take  those  bottom  row  of  fronds 
 off  of  them  so  when  you  do  your  trimming 
 you  kind  of  want  to  trim  nice  and  close 
 to  the  ba  the  trunk  of  the  plant  you 
 just  kind  of  want  to  take  each  of  those 
 leaves  right  off  of 
 there  well  hello  there  I  want  to 
 interrupt  this  video  real  quick  um  I 
 wanted  to  welcome  all  of  our  new 
 subscribers  this  month  to  a  fantastic 
 gardening  Community  this  um  this  group 
 that  is  on  this  channel  you  guys  have 
 been  so  so  helpful  not  only  do  I  put  out 
 these  tips  and  tricks  of  of  what  works 
 for  me  within  my  um  my  projects  and  and 
 plants  and  trees  that  that  I've  uh  dealt 
 with  over  the  last  25  years  but  you  guys 
 have  been  so  fantastic  to  put  comments 
 in  put  tips  in  put  information  in  things 
 that  I  might  have  missed  or  reply  to 
 other  other  people  so  um  I  want  to  thank 
 you  guys  for  your  um  for  your  time  in 
 doing  that  and  and  sharing  those  um 
 sharing  those  with  others  because  I  feel 
 like  we've  created  such  a  great 
 Community  here  um  for  those  of  you  who 
 are  new  and  and  uh  don't  quite  know  me 
 yet  my  name  is  Jennifer  bevans  I  am  a 
 landscape  designer  here  in  buau  Beach 
 Florida  and  um  my  husband  and  I  own  our 
 own  company  which  called  construction 
 landscape  and  we  specialize  in  creating 
 these  outdoor  spaces  that  you  see  on  my 
 channel  here  so  if  you're  looking  to 
 have  some  uh  landscape  work  done  we  do 
 the  design  and  the  installation  as  a 
 package  project  I  work  directly  with  my 
 clients  um  and  then  I  I  handle  all  the 
 renderings  and  the  3D  digital  um 
 pictures  to  kind  of  show  you  what  the 
 new  landscape  is  going  to  look  like  and 
 my  husband  and  our  in-house  land  skape 
 crew  handles  all  of  the  installations  so 
 if  you're  looking  to  have  something  like 
 that  done  for  you  and  you've  been  seen 
 the  videos  and  this  is  kind  of  your  Vibe 
 then  please  reach  out  to  us  we  service 
 all  along  the  treasure  and  Space  Coast 
 um  so  all  from  Coco  Beach  Satellite 
 Beach  area  all  the  way  along  the  coast 
 Melbourne  uh  virau  Beach  um  into  Stewart 
 Palm  City  um  into  the  Jupiter  area  so 
 kind  of  go  all  along  the  coast  so  we'd 
 be  very  very  happy  to  meet  with  you  and 
 see  what  we  can  create  in  your  space  but 
 but  I  will  let  you  get  back  to  the  video 
 I  just  want  to  pop  in  and  say 
 hello  and  then  you  just  leave  that  top 
 section  on  so  about  once  a  year  I  will 
 take  one  row  of  about  eight  or  nine  of 
 those  fronds  off  and  I'll  do  that  on 
 each  one  of  these  guys  to  keep  them  nice 
 and  upright  so  you  can  plant  these  guys 
 in  full  sun  filter  light  or  um  you  can 
 partial  shade  now  when  they're  in  more 
 shade  you'll  notice  that  they'll  be  a 
 darker  green  but  they'll  also  be  a 
 little  bit  thinner 
 um  plant  grouping  and  they'll  be  more 
 widespread  because  they're  searching  for 
 that  light  so  to  me  the  best  environment 
 for  them  is  full  sun  now  one  of  their 
 negatives  is  scale  scale  is  a  is  an 
 issue  with  seos  so  um  it  happens  less 
 when  you're  in  the  Orlando  area  or  along 
 the  beach  area  um  in  our  section  with 
 our  humidity  in  our  our  space  of  Florida 
 down  down  into  South  Florida  scale  is 
 more  is  is  more  of  an  issue  so  what  I 
 end  up  doing  is  I  use  Dominion  it's  a 
 Dominion  pesticide  drench  um  you  put  1 
 ounce  of  it  in  there  so  it's  a  very 
 small  amount  and  then  you  mix  it  with  a 
 gallon  of  water  you  shake  it  up  and  then 
 you  pour  it  right  on  top  of  the  plant  it 
 distributes  from  the  top  of  the  plant 
 all  the  way  into  the  base  into  the  root 
 system  and  um  prevents  that  plant  from 
 getting  scale  so  you  can  do  that  a  few 
 times  a  year  to  prevent  that  from 
 happening  um  and  if  you  notice  scale  on 
 your  plants  then  go  ahead  and  pour  it  on 
 there  and  then  um  you  know  you  might 
 have  to  treat  it  multiple  times  to  um  to 
 get  get  rid  of  the  scale  on  the  new 
 growth  um  you  will  remain  that  residue 
 will  remain  on  the  old  leaves  but  all 
 the  new  leaves  you'll  see  that  it's  nice 
 and  healthy  and  then  you  can  eventually 
 cut  off  the  old  leaves  if  you  do  not 
 catch  it  in  time  and  it's  heavily  scaled 
 just  go  ahead  and  just  completely  take 
 all  the  leaves  off  of  it  cut  it  all  the 
 way  back  to  like  the  trunk  and  then  put 
 the  pesticide  treatment  on  it  and  it'll 
 flush  back  out  with  new  growth  I  promise 
 you  it  does  not  let  not  take  that  long 
 for  that  plant  to  really  flush  out  when 
 it's  nice  and  healthy  so  it  definitely 
 is  worth  it  and  I  do  love  what  they 
 created  in  the  garden  so  um  it's 
 entirely  entirely  a  win-win  in  my  book 
 but  um  now  what  I  do  use  on  all  of  my 
 Palms  ADV  rice  if  you  want  to  zoom  in  on 
 the  nutritional  spray  that  I  use  I  take 
 just  a  little  bit  of  that  and  I  put  that 
 into  like  a  hose  end  um  application  form 
 and  I'll  spray  that  um  right  onto  the 
 Palms  so  I'll  do  that  with  my  king  seos 
 I'll  do  that  with  all  of  all  of  my 
 Tropicals  for  the  most  part  but  mainly 
 my  palm  trees  my  upper  palm  trees  trees 
 um  even  though  King  seos  are  not  palms 
 or  pads  they  do  re  really  really  well 
 with  the  nutritional  spray  it's  just  a 
 dose  of  magnesium  and  a  few  other  really 
 good  elements  in  there  so  um  so  it's 
 great  to  use  and  you're  not  going  to 
 burn  the  plant  you  can  use  that  pretty 
 much  every  month  if  you  wanted  to  um 
 every  90  days  I  do  hit  them  with  an  8 
 to12  granular  fertilizer  um  that's  a 
 fantastic  fertilizer  to  use  for  these 
 guys  and  they  really  really  do  love  it 
 so  um  it  seems  to  seems  to  work  really 
 well  and  just  make  sure  that's  a  slow 
 release  so  you're  not  you're  not  dealing 
 with  any  kind  of  burn  or  issue  with  that 
 as  well  so  um  I  pair  it  just  kind  of 
 like  how  you  see  here  so  you  kind  of  see 
 how  these  are  kind  of  be  nice  and  low 
 because  these  grow  so  so  slow  I  can 
 group  them  in  and  let  them  be  the  front 
 grouping  to  a  plant  area  and  then  really 
 let  that  back  area  fill  in  and  become 
 real  tropical  and  thick  and  Lush  and 
 then  I  feel  like  I've  got  you  know  a 
 little  bit  of  clean  lines  here  and  then 
 it  gets  kind  of  kind  of  crazy  in  the 
 back  so  that  is  generally  how  I  use  King 
 seos  I  also  use  them  coming  up  a  walkway 
 again  if  we're  not  having  animals  in 
 that  area  but  I  use  them  along  a  walkway 
 I'll  use  them  around  Fountain  features  I 
 think  they're  great  focal  points  there 
 um  but  overall  I  think  they're 
 definitely  a  great  little  Florida  plant 
 to  use  and  I  mean  how  cool  is  they're 
 pads  so  these  guys  have  been  around 
 since  the  dinosaurs  which  you  know  I 
 think  that  I  think  that  itself  makes  me 
 want  to  have  them  in  the  garden  so  all 
 right  you  guys  that  is  the  end  of  um 
 plant  of  the  week  tour  for  King  seos  if 
 I've  missed  it  anything  please  stick  in 
 the  comments  down  below  any  questions 
 that  you  guys  have  you  know  I'll  be 
 happy  to  get  to  you  just  as  soon  as  I 
 can 
 um  oh  yes  if  there's  a  if  there's  a 
 specific  plan  that  you  guys  are  thinking 
 about  getting  or  incorporating  into  your 
 garden  and  it's  maybe  something  that 
 I've  maybe  not  mentioned  then  you  know 
 definitely  put  in  the  comments  down 
 below  and  we'll  check  into  it  and  see  if 
 um  see  if  I  know  enough  about  it  and  use 
 it  often  that  I  can  feel  good  and 
 comfortable  um  sharing  that  with  you 
 guys  like  sub  I  don't  know  how  would  I 
 do  without  this  guy  do  not  forget  to 
 like  subscribe  check  us  out  on  Instagram 
 and  comment  true  Garder  because  you'll 
 be  part  of  our  true  Garder  family  and  I 
 will  see  you  guys  in  the  very  next 
 episode  see  you  next 
 [Music] 
 week

---



---

 [Music] 
 hey  you  guys  welcome  back  we  are  in  my 
 yard  again  and  this  is  going  to  be  a 
 home  garden  tour  of  my  sidey  yard  so  I'm 
 really  really  thrilled  to  show  you  this 
 one  because  this  is  a  new  renovation 
 that  we  just  did  and  I  think  it  turned 
 out  so  so  well  so  if  um  if  you  guys  have 
 one  of  those  sidey  yards  that  it's  a 
 narrow  space  maybe  not  a  lot  of  light 
 real  difficult  to  deal  with  maybe  it's 
 on  the  foundation  of  your  house  or  like 
 on  the  side  of  your  house  so  you  can't 
 plan  anything  too  close  to  it  but  you 
 you  still  kind  of  want  it  to  have  that 
 impact  that  the  rest  of  your  yard  has 
 then  stick  around  because  this  video  is 
 for  you  uh  first  I'm  going  to  apologize 
 for  my  voice  I  am  struggling  this  week 
 um  had  wisdom  teeth  pulled  earlier  in 
 the  week  and  then  um  fighting  with  um 
 with  losing  my  voice  on  this  cold  um  but 
 I  have  my  son  Bryce  who  is  here  with  me 
 for  a  few  days  um  from  school  from 
 college  and  he  is  um  you  know  gracious 
 enough  to  do  these  videos  for  me  so  we 
 thought  we'd  bang  out  a  few  videos 
 together  and  um  you  know  I  do  what  every 
 mother  does  as  soon  as  their  kid  comes 
 home  I  put  him  right  to  work  and  so  we 
 uh  we're  doing  this  together  and  my 
 voice  is  just  not  cooperating  but  he's 
 so  gracious  to  just  kind  of  you  know 
 walk  walk  through  these  video  tours  with 
 us  and  that  way  I  can  share  all  the  fun 
 stuff  and  have  to  worry  about  the  camera 
 cuz  I  know  you  guys  are  probably  seeing 
 my  camera  work  not  the  best  so  and  I 
 think  this  area  deserved  quite  a  bit  of 
 um  quite  a  bit  of  attention  so  so  I 
 guess  we'll  jump  right  in  so  this  is  my 
 sidey  yard  space  I  there's  not  a  lot  to 
 it  and  I  know  we  did  a  video  on  my  sidey 
 garden  about  a  year  and  a  half  ago  or  so 
 and  this  area  has  stayed  the  same  this 
 area  has  done  superbly  I'm  so  very  very 
 happy  with  it  we  redid  this  a  few  years 
 back  we  put  in  these  I  Palms  um  they've 
 really  grown  really  given  us  that 
 blockage  we  have  a  neighbor  just  on  the 
 other  side  of  that  and  so  we  really 
 definitely  wanted  to  um  kind  of  wanted 
 to  create  a  a  pretty  significant  buffer 
 but  you  know  I  just  have  this  thing  with 
 walls  spaces  you  know  I  love  to  create 
 create  walls  with  palms  and  and  trees 
 and  really  kind  of  give  you  that 
 courtyard  feel  I  I  just  I  don't  know  I 
 think  there's  just  such  charm  to  that 
 you  know  maybe  it's  that  you  know  that 
 New  Orleans  charm  or  you  know  that  bit 
 of  Charleston  that  I  love  they  create 
 Courtyards  within  every  space  but  I  love 
 the  idea  of  having  each  area  has  its  own 
 Vista  you  know  it's  we're  we're  we're 
 coming  going  in  from  a  big  wide  open 
 area  of  my  front  yard  then  it  Narrows 
 nice  and  tidy  down  and  kind  of  romantic 
 and  intimate  along  the  sidey  yard  and 
 then  it  again  opens  up  to  more  of  our 
 entertaining  space  in  our  backyard  and  I 
 just  you  know  I  just  find  that  charming 
 and  it's  the  same  way  with  the  botanical 
 gardens  those  little  Pathways  that  you 
 you  wind  through  you  know  you  hear  the 
 sound  of  water  you  hear  a  little  a 
 little  bit  of  interest  of  this  or  that 
 fragrance  smell  whatever  the  senses  are 
 it  kind  of  draws  you  through  into  that 
 next  space  but  it  sometimes  it's  those 
 little  spaces  that  it  get  overlooked 
 that  are  end  up  being  the  most  magical 
 so  I'm  hoping  this  space  does  that  for 
 for  me  and  we  were  able  to  in  this 
 little  area  so  we're  looking  at  5  and  1 
 half  to  six  foot  deep  as  far  as  um  how 
 much  work  or  how  much  area  we  had  to 
 work  with  and  it  goes  about  32t  long  so 
 it's  not  a  big  space  you  guys  it  really 
 really  isn't  and  so  we  try  to  capitalize 
 on  what  we  can  put  in  this  little  narrow 
 space  and  not  put  everything  right  up 
 against  the  house  so  we  were  able  to 
 incorporate  a  little  seating  section  I 
 know  you  guys  got  a  a  sneak  peek  of  this 
 area  just  um  just  a  few  moments  ago  but 
 a  seating  section  an  8  by8  um  living 
 wall  a  triple  Basalt  water  water  feature 
 and  then  some  additional  plantings  but 
 I'll  kind  of  go  through  um  kind  of  go 
 through  those  things  individually  for 
 you  so  that  way  you  can  see  it  now  the 
 um  the  living  wall  is  going  to  be  a 
 little  bit  different  than  a  lot  of  the 
 living  walls  that  you've  seen  U  on 
 YouTube  and  I'll  tell  you  why  in  a 
 moment  but  it's  overall  just  for  ease  of 
 maintenance  on  me  so  starting  here  this 
 is  of  course  my  front  yard  section  my 
 front  yard  patio  area  where  my  pond  is 
 um  you  can  hear  that  sound  of  waterfall 
 that  sound  of  water  over  there  and  I 
 wanted  to  carry  that  through  into  um 
 into  my  sidey  section  it  starts  with 
 this  cool  gate  and  then  and  then  this 
 gate  is  something  that  was  a  simple 
 purchase  off  of  marketplace  it  was  um  it 
 was  a  coffee  shop  that  went  out  of 
 business  during  covid  and  I  had  no  no 
 need  for  the  gate  at  the  time  but  I  just 
 um  I  don't  know  I  just  loved  it  I  knew 
 it  was  going  to  be  a  cool  feature  to  add 
 to  some  part  of  our  garden  so  it  ended 
 up  here  my  husband  put  up  some  um 
 woodwork  um  to  support  this  big  giant 
 heavy  gate  and  we're  going  to  doll  this 
 up  a  little  bit  with  some  more  ornate  um 
 detail  on  the  woodwork  but  you  know 
 budgets  you  know  how  budgets  work  it's 
 it's  tough  for  all  of  us  so  um  but  over 
 time  that's  my  plan  to  kind  of  create 
 more  of  an  arbor  and  more  of  a  feel  here 
 so  I  cannot  wait  for  for  that  to  happen 
 because  the  the  gate  really  calls  for 
 some  of  that  you  know  maybe  it's  me  that 
 calls  for  it  but  because  my  husband 
 would  be  done  if  he  could  um  and  then  I 
 found  this  really  cool  um  uh  hanging 
 basket  um  I  found  it  at  the  um  Garden 
 Fest  this  most  recent  Garden  Fest  this 
 past  February  and  I  loved  it  I  thought 
 it  would  really  show  up  nice  again  it 
 has  that  charm  and  that  feel  a  little 
 bit  of  that  old  world  for  me  so  I  put  it 
 up  against  the  very  modern  black  um 
 backing  and  I  just  think  it  goes  so  so 
 well  together  I  was  fortunate  enough  to 
 score  this  cool  concrete  bench  from 
 Peggy  Peggy  was  one  of  my  clients  who 
 found  me  on  YouTube  and  uh  last  year  she 
 gave  me  um  this  bench  because  she  just 
 didn't  have  a  place  for  it  in  the  garden 
 and  she's  like  you  know  take  it  I  hope 
 you  can  find  a  home  for  it  and  I  am  so 
 glad  I  did  because  I  it's  going  to  have 
 a  whole  new  life  here  it's  going  to  be 
 perfect  for  this  spot 
 those  of  you  guys  who  are  trying  to 
 determine  to  put  a  bench  or  any  kind  of 
 seating  section  or  a  beast  set  or 
 whatnot  out  in  your  garden  go  ahead  and 
 do  it  I  know  you  know  I  know  a  lot  of 
 people  say  it's  just  for  looks  I 
 absolutely  sit  here  all  the  time  I  will 
 you  know  trim  or  weed  or  fertilize  or 
 whatever  and  I  will  plop  right  down  here 
 for  a  few  minutes  to  collect  my  thoughts 
 or  you  know  or  sometimes  I'll  I'll 
 actually  do  my  planting  and  move 
 everything  over  into  this  area  so  this 
 has  been  a  very  useful  thing  and  I'd 
 like  to  like  point  that  to  my  husband 
 because  when  they  carried  it  him  and  and 
 um  one  of  our  guys  carried  it  over  here 
 it's  so  darn  heavy  and  they're  like  why 
 are  you  putting  this  here  I  guarantee 
 you're  not  going  to  use  it  so  this 
 evidence  I  might  even  post  pictures  but 
 I  do  use  that  all  the  time  um  to  the 
 back  I've  got  some  agena  back  there  and 
 um  I've  also  got  of  course  farfugium 
 because  I  absolutely  love  farfugium 
 they're  going  to  be  a  fantastic 
 fantastic  plant  grouping  all  the  way 
 around  the  bench  it's  a  tight  little 
 corner  there  so  I  cannot  wait  for  those 
 farfugium  to  kind  of  come  fold  over  and 
 give  us  that  big  Lily  Pad  Leaf  they're 
 going  to  come  in  right  into  this  range 
 and  then  completely  Circle  and  circle 
 the  bench  and  I  just  you  know  it's  just 
 so  aliceon  Wonderland  I  just  I  think 
 that's  going  to  be  so  so  cool  I  love 
 their  big  Lily  Pad  leaf  and  then  um  I 
 don't  want  to  miss  out  on  these  cool 
 Planters  so  these  are  um  two  rot  iron 
 Planters  the  I  felt  like  the  hanging 
 wall  needed  a  little  bit  of  support  and 
 some  impact  so  I  ended  up  finding  these 
 two  at  um  gardenfest  this  past  February 
 and  I  I  just  I  think  they're  so  so  cool 
 I  found  the  brackets  off  of  Amazon  and 
 I'll  post  those  links  down  below  so  if 
 you  guys  would  like  they  actually  do 
 swiel  and  turn  they're  fantastic  for 
 bird  feeders  or  or  pots  like  this  they 
 really  do  support  quite  a  bit  of  weight 
 so  I  was  very  impressed  so  now  we're 
 going  to  get  to  the  living  wall  so  the 
 living  wall  um  this  was  something  that  I 
 did  research  uh 
 from  Amazon  um  quite  a  bit  um  your 
 typical  living  wall  is  a  felt  liner 
 living  wall  has  little  pockets  in  it  you 
 attach  it  to  a  wood  backing  and  it's 
 fabulous  it  instantly  looks  good 
 instantly  takes  up  every  little  nook  and 
 cranny  and  spot  however  I  had  um  the 
 benefit  of  doing  maintenance  on  that 
 kind  of  living  wall  several  years  ago 
 and  it  was  just  so  Ooey  and  gooey  and  it 
 was  only  two  years  old  but  it  the 
 pockets  had  corrosion  in  them  there  was 
 all  kinds  of  bugs  and  whatnot  inside  and 
 you  know  with  these  guys  you  got  to 
 actually  lift  and  put  your  hands  in 
 these  areas  pretty  often  so  there's  a 
 lot  of  hand  workk  that  goes  in  here  and 
 um  I  know  I'm  a  girl  and  you  know  I  just 
 get  all  eak  out  and  when  it's  you  know 
 frogs  jump  on  me  or  sometimes  even  li 
 lizards  jump  on  me  so  I  love  how  this 
 concept  works  this  is  pretty  much  a  um  a 
 metal  paneled  backing  these  panels  are 
 2T  wide  by  6t  long  and  I  have  three  of 
 them  on  this  um  on  this  Frame  and  it's 
 just  pretty  much  an  overall  wood  frame 
 on  posts  and  we've  got  some  frames 
 supporting  the  middle  so  I  think  he's 
 got  one  two  three  four  supportive  frames 
 in  the  back  and  then  we've  just  attached 
 those  panels  those  three  panels  to  it 
 now  there  are  a  lot  of  panels  on  Amazon 
 so  I  will  put  the  link  down  below  of  the 
 panels  that  I  chose  because  these  are 
 industrial  strength  they're  not 
 expensive  and  they  come  in  a  pack  of 
 three  so  um  it  was  it  was  and  they're 
 they  had  that  uh  they  have  a  black  um  a 
 black  covering  on  them  so  hopefully  and 
 I'll  be  able  to  give  you  an  update  on 
 that  they  won't  rust  and  it'll  it'll 
 it'll  hold  and  work  out  really  really 
 well  but  um  but  what  I  do  like  about 
 them  is  they're  tough  and  they're  strong 
 and  they  were  really  able  to  support  all 
 of  these  baskets  without  any  trouble  and 
 I  can  see  that  they're  going  to  they're 
 going  to  hold  up  in  that  way  really 
 really  well 
 and  then  I  found  these  baskets  these  are 
 like  resin  baskets  um  they're  really 
 really  cool  to  work  with  they  pop  right 
 off  they  come  with  the  hooks  they  have 
 three  holes  in  the  back  and  I'll  see  if 
 Bryce  can  incorporate  a  picture  of  what 
 they  look  like  when  they're  empty  so  you 
 guys  have  a  really  good  look  of 
 those  okay  you  guys  so  these  are  the 
 pots  that  I  had  mentioned  um  they  are 
 hooked  to  the  wire  backing  and  nice  and 
 soft  salid  this  is  where  we're  going  to 
 put  the  um  the  mys  through  so  each  pot 
 will  get  um  a  little  bit  of  water  as  it 
 goes  through  we're  just  going  to  run  the 
 drip  line  along  the  top  and  feed  it 
 through  those  edges  and  that  way  um  we 
 can  put  this  on  a 
 light  a  light  cycle  of  maybe  once  a  week 
 watering  so  and  um  you  know  these  pots 
 are  fantastic  I  mean  you  can  even  use 
 them  indoors  I  don't  have  it  set  up  this 
 way  but  there's  a  a  little  false  bottom 
 in  here  and  then  you  there's  a  wick  that 
 goes  into  these  little  holes  here  so  if 
 you  do  decide  that  you  want  to  do  this 
 indoors  you  could  put  the  plant  in  here 
 and  the  water  would  Wick  up  through  the 
 um  the  bottom  as  all  of  the  water  um 
 sits  on  the  bottom  of  the  pot  and  keeps 
 your  your  plants  nice  and  moisturized  um 
 so  but  since  we  are  going  to  do  this 
 outdoors  I  am  going  to  do  unplug  those 
 holes  there  and  just  use  a  drip  line 
 system  so  while  we're  away  or  busy  that 
 everything  gets  the  appropriate  amount 
 of  water  so  I  am  going  to  start  planting 
 these  guys  up  they're  going  to  be  pretty 
 young  when  I  first  start  with  them  but 
 they  the  whole  goal  is  for  them  to  drape 
 over  and  cover  the  pots  themselves  and 
 they  should  do  that  in  no  time  I  will  I 
 probably  won't  wait  for  the  video  to  um 
 post  for  that  to  happen  I'll  I'll  show 
 you  the  video  with  it  newly  planted  and 
 then  I'll  do  an  update  in  about  3  or  4 
 months  so  that  way  you  guys  can  see  as 
 everything  really  fully  grows  in  if 
 you're  wondering  what  these  big  guys  are 
 here  these  are  arm  brackets  that  I  found 
 off  of  Amazon  and  I  am  going  to  put  some 
 string  lights  going  across  the  walkway 
 um  down  the  down  the  walkway  area  to 
 light  this  space  up  so  this  is  my  gate 
 here  and  then  of  course  my  walkway  that 
 leads  from  my  driveway  in  front  door 
 area  and  goes  all  the  way  down  um  so  I 
 kind  of  want  it  lit  up  say  hello  to 
 Olive  you  guys  hey  Olive  she's  so  sleepy 
 we  just  got  back  from  a  walk  this  is  our 
 new  addition  to  the 
 family  Olive  is  going  to  hang  out  with 
 us  just  like  this  on  job  site  she's  such 
 a  good  girl  so  we  our  new  puppy  owners 
 lots  of  lots  of  fun  with  that  especially 
 you  guys  who  have  had  a  puppy  recently 
 know  okay  so  I'm  going  to  go  ahead  and 
 start  planting  these  guys  up  with  my 
 assistant  here  and  uh  we'll  uh  we'll  get 
 this  uh  get  this 
 roll 
 but  um  they  they  have  three  holes  in  the 
 back  one  for  the  tubing  for  the  water 
 and  two  for  the  hooks  themselves  and 
 they  just  hook  right  on  to  any  of  the 
 spots  on  the  um  on  the  metal  the  metal 
 bracing  back  there  and  what  I  really 
 like  about  those  is  that  when  I  have  to 
 do  maintenance  on  this  plant  I  pop  this 
 plant  off  I  take  it  out  I  put  it  on  the 
 the  bench  and  then  I  clean  up  around  the 
 plant  or  if  I've  got  to  take  one  out  say 
 one  just  didn't  make  it  didn't  look  good 
 I'm  going  to  take  him  out  and  put 
 another  one  in  and  then  that  is  just  so 
 so  easy  to  work  with  and  I  don't  have  to 
 worry  about  sticking  my  hands  in  places 
 that  I  don't  know  what  um  what  I'm 
 dealing  with  in  there  which  is  the  only 
 reason  why  I  just  did  not  like  the  the 
 pockets  and  then  the  pockets  on  the 
 sides  you  can  see  so  much  white  and 
 corrosion  it  just  with  fertilizer  it 
 just  it  just  didn't  hold  up  well  so 
 we'll  see  what  these  do  these  are 
 supposed  to  be  UV  protected  and  do  super 
 super  well  um  in  the  garden  so  I  will  do 
 a  three  a  six  and  a  year  update  on  that 
 that  way  you  guys  get  it  all  the  good 
 the  bad  the  ugly  what  worked  what  didn't 
 what  don't  don't  waste  your  money  on  and 
 you  know  hopefully  fingers  crossed  this 
 is  a  success  because  this  is  something  I 
 want  to  incorporate  in  in  future  client 
 Gardens  and  I  I  um  I  wouldn't  do  it  with 
 the  with  the  felt  liners  but  this  I 
 might  and  just  because  I  don't  like  any 
 hard  edges  in  the  garden  I  ended  up  you 
 know  just  kind  of  softening  this  side 
 just  like  we  have  the  agania  on  that 
 side  we've  got  a  little  touch  of  just 
 something  that's  going  to  kind  of  pop 
 out  and  expand  this  corner  a  little  bit 
 um  so  first  down  below  the  skirt 
 planting  would  be  the  the  white  Bonia 
 odorata  this  is  a  perennial  and  this  guy 
 oh  my  gosh  blooms  all  winter  long  into 
 spring  early  summer  loves  the  filtered 
 light  though  so  north  side  of  the  house 
 is  it  just  does  super  super  well  here 
 loves  extra  moisture  so  that's  why  I  put 
 him  right  near  the  fountain  um  and  then 
 I  have  another  agly  Nema  there  and  then 
 I've  got  now  this  is  a  cool  cool  Leaf 
 this  is  a 
 stingray 
 aliccia  and  look  at  this  Leaf  rice  is 
 this  is  just  the  coolest  Leaf  I  just 
 think  it  is  so  awesome  obviously  I  don't 
 have  to  tell  you  why  it  called  Stingray 
 alloca  so  I  don't  know  much  about  it  I 
 purchased  it  from  the  garden  center  um 
 the  garden  Fest  um  this  past  February 
 and  it  is  um  as  from  what  I  could  read 
 grows  about  six  foot  tall  it  um  thickens 
 out  to  about  four  times  the  size  that  it 
 currently  is  so  it's  going  to  kind  of 
 fold  over  the  water  feature  to  give  it 
 kind  of  a  little  bit  of  lushness  there 
 and  then  hopefully  go  up  the  side  of  the 
 um  of  the  the  wall  here  um  but  in  my 
 three-month  video  if  it's  10  foot  tall 
 you  guys  will  see  it  because  Google  has 
 a  way  of  telling  you  one  thing  and  you 
 know  so  this  is  a  test  trial  I  only 
 bought  one  I'm  going  to  give  it  a  go  if 
 it  if  it  works  as  as  well  as  they  say  it 
 works  then  I  will  be  incorporating  it  in 
 my  future  Landscapes  because  I  just  I 
 just  think  to  have  a  stingray  in  the 
 garden  how  cool  is  that  you  know  so  it's 
 going  to  be  exciting  um  so  right  next  to 
 it  is  my  Basalt  column  water  feature  so 
 these  are  three  triple  um  columns  that 
 offer  just  a  bubbling  effect  and  you 
 know  I  think  I  mentioned  that  before  you 
 know  I've  got  water  in  the  front  yard  as 
 soon  as  you  come  in  I  have  a  koi  pond 
 and  then  as  we  going  to  kind  of  Trail 
 around  through  coming  to  the  side  yard 
 going  into  the  backyard  I  loved  the  idea 
 of  having  water  in  this  little  space 
 there's  not  much  I  could  have  done  in 
 this  space  I  think  that  would  give  you 
 the  same  kind  of  impact  that  water  does 
 and  if  you  guys  have  tored  those  you 
 know  those  botanical  gardens  or  been 
 through  th  those  Resorts  that  have  you 
 know  water  just  kind  of  speckled  through 
 you  know  the  pathways  you  hear  just  it 
 could  be  just  a  little  trickling 
 Fountain  it  could  be  something  super 
 small  but  there's  just  something  that 
 kind  of  you  hear  you  hear  this  sound  of 
 water  and  then  a  little  further  down  you 
 hear  a  different  kind  of  sound  of  water 
 maybe  a  deeper  darker  sound  of  water  and 
 then  um  it  just  kind  of  makes  you  it 
 kind  of  pulls  you  through  the  garden  so 
 I  wanted  that  all  the  way  around  so  I 
 have  one  in  the  front  I  have  this  one 
 here  I  have  one  a  little  further  down 
 that  we'll  get  to  see  and  then  as  soon 
 as  you  get  to  the  back  I  have  another 
 pondless  waterfall  so  Pond  pondless  and 
 two  fountains  and  I  could  I'm  probably 
 not  done  I  just  I  think  water  does  bring 
 um  bring  your  garden  to  life  a  little 
 bit  so  I  I  try  to  incorporate  it  where  I 
 can  it  just  soothes  me  you  know  I  have 
 the  best  job  in  the  world  but  even  at 
 the  end  of  the  day  depleted  with  some 
 energy  grabbing  a  glass  of  wine  coming 
 out  here  walking  through  the  garden 
 seeing  what's  what  what's  blooming 
 what's  doing  well  like  something  caught 
 my  eye  over  there  so  we're  going  to  go 
 over  there  in  a  minute  Bryce  um  but 
 seeing  what's  blooming  and  just  you  know 
 what's  what's  happy  in  the  garden  it  it 
 just  relieves  me  it  gives  me  that  I 
 don't  know  just  gives  me  that  anchor 
 into  into  this  space  so  um  so  I'm 
 grateful  for  it  and  you  know  I  hope  that 
 comes  across  in  these  videos  because 
 it's  it's  definitely  it's  not  so  much  a 
 showand  tell  it's  more  like  you  know  if 
 this  if  this  calls  to  you  then  you  know 
 get  get  your  hands  dirty  get  in  get  in 
 the  ground  and  and  really  kind  of  you 
 know  kind  of  create  what  what  you  want 
 to  create  for  yourself  so  um  so  I  hope 
 it  comes  across  that  way  because  that  is 
 truly  the  way  I  mean  it  but  um  we'll 
 kind  of  pan  over  here  to  this  side 
 before  we  go  into  the  next  space  um  this 
 area  is  pretty  much  stayed  the  same  with 
 a  couple  a  couple  small  additions  um 
 obviously  the  Obi  Island  Palm  has  um  has 
 grown  you  guys  from  just  a  couple  years 
 ago  when  I  posted  the  sidey  guard  video 
 it  is  just  really  taking  off  it  a  it's  a 
 tender  small  tree  it's  got  these  great 
 great  big  fan  leaves  um  they're  a  little 
 bit  more  divided  in  this  area  because 
 believe  it  or  not  we  do  get  a  good  deal 
 of  wind  here  um  but  in  more  of  a 
 courtyard  setting  they're  probably  a  lot 
 less  divided  more  hole  but  I  just  I  love 
 the  softness  of  these  big  wide  leaves  um 
 in  comparison  to  like  the  ureas  and 
 other  typical  palm  trees  so  this  my  goal 
 is  for  this  guy  to  you  know  just  kind  of 
 really  reach  over  and  as  you  walk 
 underneath  I  just  think  that's  so 
 Charming  um  the  first  tree  that  I  did 
 that  with  is  the  hurricane  pal  that  you 
 guys  see  up  there  and  it  did  um  in  the 
 previous  video  you  probably  saw  more 
 more  of  it  really  coming  right  over  top 
 of  you  kind  of  creating  a  roof  over  top 
 of  the  sidey  and  it's  now  well  above  us 
 and  I'm  going  to  answer  this  question 
 real  quick  um  because  I  I've  gotten  this 
 several  times  how  close  can  you  plant 
 Palms  to  one  another  and  this  is  a  great 
 example  you  guys  so  this  hurricane  Palm 
 was  planted  first  this  came  you  know  a 
 year  or  so  later  so  this  tree  I  planted 
 it  at  a  good  size  so  I  was  able  to  plant 
 it  kind  of  real  close  to  the  Eureka 
 Palms  cuz  it's  well  above  the  Eureka 
 Palm  planting  um  but  then  we've  got  this 
 tree  here  that  I  know  is  going  to  grow 
 so  so  much  slower  so  you  can  really  put 
 these  trees  within  four  or  five  feet  of 
 each  other  and  layer  in  just  work  your 
 way  in  just  make  sure  that  the  trees 
 that  are  the  closest  to  you  within  the 
 garden  are  going  to  be  the  smaller  trees 
 so  whatever  is  further  back  is  the 
 tallest  and  then  you  work  your  way  and 
 layer  in  and  that's  just  the  way  that's 
 that's  the  way  to  kind  of  create  a  wall 
 of  fronds  and  then  what  that  really 
 offers  it  allowed  me  to  put  things  in 
 here  that  really  love  shade  that  really 
 really  can  handle  a  lot  of  coverage  so 
 now  I've  got  all  of  this  area  for 
 Tropicals  um  like  my  new  addition  which 
 are  these  triple  sisters  of  blue  Tango  I 
 love  those  guys  I  have  a  couple  of  them 
 in  my  waterfall  and  I  just  see  that  Popa 
 blue  color  every  time  I  look  out  there 
 and  that  is  just  so  stunning  so  don't 
 they  really  I  mean  really  if  I  could 
 fill  my  whole  yard  with  those  I  would  I 
 just  think  they're  absolutely  stunners 
 in  the  garden  they'll  get  a  little  bit 
 bigger  than  what  you  see  here  but  um  you 
 know  they're  not  a  big  overall  plant  so 
 you  really  do  have  to  carve  out  a  little 
 space  for  them  but  they  bloom  like  that 
 you  those  blooms  will  last  almost  five 
 months  four  or  five  months  on  on  that 
 coloring  and  then  what  they'll  do  is 
 that  plant  that  mother  plant  will  die 
 but  it'll  provide  you  a  pup  in  the 
 meantime  and  then  that  pup  will  Bloom  so 
 on  the  one  in  the  um  in  my  water  I'm  I'm 
 about  four  pups  in  so  it's  it's  it  seems 
 like  it's  every  time  I  turn  around  it's 
 Always  In  Bloom  so  it's  definitely  worth 
 a  plant  to  have  um  but  the  blue  Tangos 
 are  phenomenal  pop  of  color  in  the 
 garden  so  so  yeah  I  think  I  think 
 everything  else  is  pretty  much  here  just 
 is  all  kind  of  grown  in  and  and 
 thickened 
 out  and  so  we  will  work  our  way  further 
 down  so  another  item  that  really  stayed 
 put  that  I  will  not  move  I  will  keep 
 probably  forever 
 is  my  mojito  tree  I  mean  my  lime  tree  my 
 lime  tree  this  beautiful  girl  she 
 produces  like  crazy  she  is  just  a 
 fantastic  fantastic  lime  tree  um  Gonic 
 Mojitos  um  anything  anything  you  want 
 with  lime  she  produces  I  can  bring  my 
 basket  out  here  and  she's  covered  so  I 
 absolutely  um  will  keep  her  in  this 
 space  It  was  kind  of  dicey  determining 
 if  she's  going  to  actually  make  it  in 
 this  area  it  is  the  one  spot  in  the 
 garden  that  is  more  open  so  so  she  does 
 get  more  Sun  than  just  about  everything 
 else  and  so  I'm  going  to  keep  it  that 
 way  I'm  going  to  keep  her  kind  of 
 compact  and  maintained  so  those  of  you 
 guys  who  have  lime  trees  or  lemon  trees 
 Myers's  lemon  trees  you  can  keep  them  as 
 small  and  compact  as  you  like  this  is 
 the  size  that  I  hope  she  will  be  in  six 
 months  and  a  year  and  two  years  and  five 
 years  because  I  really  do  I  just  like 
 this  this  look  and  this  size  it's  pretty 
 much  easy  for  me  to  get  limes  just  about 
 everywhere  from  this  particular  size  um 
 so  yeah  so  lime  tree  stays  put  now 
 I  have  this  bakus  um  statue  she  was  on 
 um  one  of  my  my  wall  water  feature  and 
 then  she  broke  so  I  put  her  in 
 underneath  the  lime  tree  because  of 
 course  bakus  is  a  you  know  God  of 
 fertility  and  a  god  of  wine  and  I  mean  I 
 think  the  fertility  was  mainly  due  to 
 the  grapes  but  I'm  hoping  it  works  the 
 same  for  for  limes  but  either  way  it  was 
 a  bare  spot  in  the  garden  and  you  guys 
 know  how  I  feel  about  be  spots  in  the 
 garden  so  I  ended  up  putting  her  almost 
 like  a  stepping  Stone  kind  of  feature 
 and  then  I  put  some  Moss  around  her  hair 
 and  just  kind  of  gave  her  a  little  bit 
 of  you  know  or  gave  him  a  little  bit  of 
 charm  him  not  her  him  so  um  and  then 
 back  here  um  I  just  pretty  much  did  a 
 nice  grouping  of 
 farfugium  and  sesia  so  those  sesia  don't 
 pay  too  much  mind  to  those  um  those 
 were  brought  in  for  a  customer  that  I 
 didn't  actually  tag  myself  at  a  nursery 
 they  were  brought  in  and  they  were  just 
 not  up  to  par  so  I  couldn't  use  them  at 
 at  my  client's  home  and  had  to  get  some 
 some  other  ones  so  they  were  in  our  in 
 our  a  holding  area  so  I  had  to  use  them 
 somewhere  so  I  know  what  they're  going 
 to  do  in  the  future  they'll  be  lovely 
 but  right  now  I  just  need  to  cut  them 
 back  and  let  them  flush  out  so  but  so 
 they're  going  to  fill  in  that  back 
 corner  give  us  a  little  bit  of  height 
 and  a  little  bit  of  color  and  then  right 
 here  Bryce  that  big  stump  that  you  see 
 there  that  is  an  old  oak  tree  that  we 
 could  not  um  we  couldn't  afford  to  stump 
 grind  it  down  because  there  was  so  many 
 pipes  and  so  much  so  much  so  much 
 underneath  of  it  that  the  um  the  tree 
 guys  really  just  didn't  want  to  mess 
 with  it  so  we  ended  up  just  keeping  it 
 in  place  and  it's  been  just  kind  of  an 
 ugly  stump  sitting  there  forever  it's 
 now  started  to  rot  so  I  was  able  to  find 
 a  firm  spot  to  put  one  of  to  put  my  pot 
 on  there  and  then  we've  kind  of  just 
 kind  of  cut  into  the  corners  and 
 Incorporated  the  plants  all  around  it 
 I've  got  some  Sedum  I  put  some  moss  in 
 there  and  then  I've  got  um  on  the 
 corners  I've  got  these  silver  odadas  and 
 these  guys  are  going  to  get  large 
 they're  going  to  get  right  into  this 
 range  and  they're  kind  of  going  to  be 
 kind  of  Fountain  fans  around  that  and 
 then  um  some  agena  there  so  they're 
 going  to  be  a  nice  little  touch  and  of 
 course  my  Fountain  Head  statue  so  it's 
 so  funny  this  one  was  on  a  a  pedestal 
 but  the  pedestal  broke  a  few  years  ago 
 and  so  um  I  had  to  find  a  spot  for  her 
 and  this  is  ended  up  being  the  perfect 
 spot  and  I've  loved  it  ever  since  we've 
 got  some  bird's  nest  ferns  dappled  down 
 below  and  then  some  pots  back  through 
 here  the  only  thing  I'm  missing  I  do 
 plan  to  put  a  pot  of  um  mint  in  the 
 garden  um  I'm  probably  going  to  put  it 
 right  around  the  tree  itself  because  you 
 know  mint  and  Mojitos  and  I'm  really 
 telling  you  guys  a  lot  about  myself 
 right  now  but  yeah  so  it's  that's  my  um 
 that's  my  future  plans  for 
 that  and  this  has  pretty  much  all  stayed 
 the  same  so  um  the  aicu  Palm  is  um  right 
 here  and  it's  kind  of  really  Fanning 
 over  just  like  as  as  it  should  and  this 
 is  also  a  lot  like  the  palm  to  the  left 
 of  it  which  is  um  that  we  just  talked 
 about  the  Obi  Island  Palm  they're  both 
 slow  Growers  and  they  both  really  do  um 
 take  their  time  along  a  walkway  so  you 
 can  put  them  right  along  the  walkway 
 unfortunately  you  do  have  to  keep  their 
 up  their  these  fronds  trimmed  so  that 
 way  you  know  they're  not  hitting  you  in 
 the  face  I  mean  I  personally  don't  mind 
 walking  around  the  fronds  when  you're 
 when  you're  in  a  garden  but  um  but  my 
 husband  seems  to  not  be  a  fan  of  that  so 
 so  yes  so  we  uh  we  trim  it  kind  of 
 upright  and  it's  really  has  a  nice  Arch 
 arching  branch 
 um  these  aicu  Palms  do  so  Eric  curies  um 
 they  also  called  Tylen  Palms  but  they're 
 very  cool  kind  of  rustic  Palm  that  work 
 really  nice  in  the  garden  that  have  a 
 limb  that  goes  up  like  this  and  then 
 curls  at  the  edges  like  you  see  here  so 
 it's  not  such  a  palm  that  takes  over  a 
 space  and  then  fire  spikes  I  just 
 dappled  Two  Fire  spikes  in  here  and  they 
 are  the  magenta  coloring  I  just  love 
 them  they  are  um  my  hummingbird 
 attractant  so  now  that  we're  coming  into 
 season  I'll  take  my  little  bell  here 
 down 
 and  then  I  will  put  up  the  hummingbird 
 feeder  and  um  into  that  spot  and  hope  to 
 entice  some  um  hummingbirds  to  uh  to 
 come  along  the  side  here  that  I  get  to 
 enjoy  um  a  couple  more  we  got  our  lady 
 PM  P  our  rayus  Palm  it  does  really  well 
 a  little  bit  of  a  succulent  dopper  right 
 here  because  this  is  a  spot  that  does 
 get  some  sun  um  so  I've  got  some  Agave 
 mixed  in  here  who  are  reaching  for  that 
 Sun  so  you  can  really  really  see  um  see 
 their  personal  ities  come  out  so  um  but 
 I  just  think  they're  cool  I  love  upright 
 things  in  a  soft  Garden  I  just  really 
 think  they  bring  your  eye  right  to  it 
 and  we  are  talking  about  really  small 
 spaces  so  you  really  do  have  to  find 
 interesting  features  almost  like  people 
 do  statues  you  know  I  think 
 incorporating  you  know  statue  heads  and 
 um  agavez  and  and  different  types  of 
 stones  and  and  you  anything  like  that  I 
 just  I  think  that  brings  and  it  brings 
 personality  to  a  garden 
 space 
 so  right  here  we  have  two  giant  spindle 
 bombs  so  these  spindle  ponds  are  planted 
 they  were  about  six  foot  when  they  were 
 planted  years  and  years  and  years  ago  um 
 and  they've  really  grown  they  are  full 
 size  now  they  will  not  get  any  bigger  so 
 if  this  is  kind  of  the  overall  size  of  a 
 tree  that  you're  thinking  about 
 incorporating  in  your  garden  then 
 spindle  Palms  even  though  they  these 
 feel  like  they're  ginormous  they're 
 really  not  for  palm  trees  they  can 
 really  be  up  close  along  a  walkway 
 because  they're  not  going  to  outgrow  the 
 space  they're  going  to  be  the  perfect 
 roof  line  to  any  space  and  I  think  that 
 these  are  really  starting  to  do  that  um 
 in  the  garden  I  just  I  love  how  their 
 canopies  exceeding  and  kind  of  coming  up 
 and  over  us  so  they're  very  very  happy 
 and  they're  very  very  cool  double  palms 
 and  they're  double  matching  palms  and 
 they've  grown  grown  about  the  same  size 
 overall  um  so  they're  um  they're  pretty 
 it  yeah  you  know  it's  hard  to  find  two 
 Palms  that  are  going  to  grow  um  similar 
 in  size  together  um  that  one  over  there 
 is  a  little  bit  smaller  because  of  the 
 shade  that  it  gets  from  the  oak  tree  and 
 the  surrounding  neighbors  Palms  so  um 
 but  I  really  do  like  it  and  this  is 
 another  area  we  decided  to  do  a  little 
 bit  of  rock  work  so  we  have  some 
 variations  in  Stones  I  don't  think  I 
 mentioned  that  earlier  but  we've  got 
 some  crimson  red  stone  we've  got  some 
 River  Jacks  here  we've  mixed  it  in  with 
 some  Mexican  beach  pebbles  here  and  then 
 we've  got  some  Indian  stone  here  um  and 
 I  just  oh  sure  so  we've  some  Mexican 
 beach  pebbles  here  underneath  the 
 fountain  and  we've  got  some  Indian  Creek 
 Stone  here  and  then  we've  got  some  River 
 Jacks  and  the  bigger  Stone  here  and  then 
 over  to  that  left  where  I  say  that's  red 
 crimson  and  then  of  course  you  guys  know 
 the  stone  that  I  love  the  most  is  the 
 tahan  gray  granite  and  that  is  on  the 
 left  side  where  we  just  put  our  new 
 additions  on  so  I  love  that  coloring  of 
 stone  it  holds  together  real  well 
 perfect  for  walkways  and  then  we've  got 
 some  Mexican  beach  Pebble  the  mini  size 
 the  real  small  kind  over  there  by  the 
 fountain  the  black  and  I  think  that 
 really  sharpens  that  one  little  area 
 right  there  and  just  kind  of  outlined  it 
 with  some  River  Jacks  I  feel  like  we're 
 bouncing  around  I  hope  we're  not  giving 
 you  guys 
 Whiplash  but  and  then  we  had  this 
 Fountain  bottom  left  over  this  is  a  this 
 is  a  part  of  an  urn  there  was  a  top  to 
 it  and  we  we  used  the  top  in  our  pond  in 
 the  front  so  we  ended  up  taking  this 
 bottom  and  cutting  some  slits  in  it  kind 
 of  making  it  more  of  a  rain  Fountain 
 here  and  we  put  some  Basin  we  have 
 100-gallon  Basin  down  below  like  we  have 
 on  the  basalt  columns  and  I  just  think 
 it  does  a  nice  job  of  giving  us  a  sound 
 of  Splash  this  is  a  whole  different 
 sound  than  the  sound  over  there  by  the 
 basalt  column  so  I  just  um  again  I  think 
 that  as  you're  walking  through  the 
 garden  you  hear  that  kind  of  bubbling 
 sound  over  there  with  more  of  a  slapping 
 sound  here  and  then  as  you  come  around 
 the  corner  to  the  waterfall  you  hear 
 that  deep  deep  sound  of  water  falling 
 into  water  so  I  just  I  just  love  that 
 this  back  here  was  a  lucky  find  on 
 Facebook  Marketplace  um  it's  an  aluminum 
 tree  and  I  just  loved  how  the  roots  and 
 and  all  that  um  you  just  I  just  love  the 
 look  of  it  and  I  had  a  blank  wall  there 
 so  bringing  that  in  and  making  that  the 
 backing  to  the  water  feature  I  think 
 really  just  polished  the  whole  the  whole 
 area 
 up  I  do  plan  to  do  a  little  bit  of  a 
 rock  wall  around  the  base  I  just  we 
 haven't  gotten  to  that  yet  of  the  water 
 feature 
 and  then  that  pretty  much  finishes  us 
 off  um  I  probably  will  see  you  in  a  few 
 months  to  do  an  updated  Tour  on  the  wall 
 I'll  list  the  plants  within  the  wall 
 next  time  I  didn't  do  that  this  time 
 because  I  don't  really  know  what's  going 
 to  work  well  and  what's  what's  going  to 
 do  you  know  what's  what's  worth  the 
 money  and  what  isn't  on  that  wall  yet 
 and  so  if  you  guys  are  thinking  about 
 doing  it  it  maybe  maybe  if  you  can  wait 
 for  the  tours  because  like  I  said  I  will 
 tell  you  honest  um  reliable  info  on  how 
 mine  has  done  and  what  you  know  what  not 
 to  waste  your  money  on  and  what  you  know 
 what  to  you  know  incorporate  and  and  how 
 well  things  are  doing  because  I  really 
 hope  this  wall  works  out  it's  not  much 
 that  I  could  do  with  that  particular 
 spot  that  would  give  me  Lush  thick 
 planting  and  not  be  able  to  go  back  is 
 able  allowing  me  to  go  vertical  and  if 
 that's  the  case  I  can  think  of  tons  of 
 places  that  I  could  have  used  that 
 within  my  client's  Gardens  that  wanted 
 that  Lush  feel  but  they  just  didn't  have 
 the  space  to  work  with  it  I  feel  like  I 
 have  something  I  have  you  know  an  ace  in 
 my  pocket  now  that  I  can  share  with  them 
 and  we  can  create  for  them  and  speaking 
 of  that  if  you  guys  are  looking  to  have 
 this  recreated  in  your  own  space  is 
 exactly  what  we  do  we  come  out  we  demo 
 and  remove  and  clean  up  your  existing 
 landscape  um  keep  what  you  want  to  keep 
 take  out  what  you  never  want  to  see 
 again  and  then  we  purchase  material  in  I 
 do  all  the  purchasing  tagging  material 
 bring  it  to  your  home  and  Rel  landscape 
 it  soil  prep  new  installation  with  our 
 in-house  installation  team  it  is  not  a 
 um  um  subcontractor  situation  in  any 
 kind  of  form  these  are  guys  that  I  work 
 with  for  many  many  many  years  and  we  all 
 work  well  together  so  um  my  husband  and 
 I  oversee  the  installation  and  we  do 
 that  week  after  week  after  week 
 throughout  our  area  um  we're  here  in 
 virau  beach  but  we  service  areas  from 
 the  um  as  far  north  as  Satellite  Beach 
 Coco  Beach  area  and  we  go  all  the  way 
 down  the  coast  from  into  Sebastian  virau 
 Beach  uh  Stewart  all  the  way  down  to 
 Jupiter  and  we'd  be  very  very  happy  to 
 meet  with  you  and  um  look  at  your  yard 
 walk  together  and  see  see  what  we  can 
 create  in  your  space  I'll  link  our 
 website  down  below  so  it'll  tell  you 
 more  details  about  our  services  and  what 
 we  offer  and  uh  yeah  give  us  a  call  I'd 
 be  happy  to  meet  with  you  and  talk  with 
 you  about  your  garden  so  um  I  think 
 that's  about  it  you  guys  I  um  I  hope  you 
 like  the  sidey  tour  I  hope  it  you  know 
 kind  of  gave  you  some  inspiration  to  get 
 out  in  your  garden  and  and  you  know 
 maybe  try  some  of  these  you  know  few 
 plants  here  and  there  that  uh  could  work 
 in  your  space  speaking  of  trying  um 
 plants  out  um  we  did  start  a  new  series 
 called  um  plan  of  the  week  and  that  plan 
 of  the  week  is  not  only  plants  we're 
 going  to  feature  plants  and  trees  I'm 
 going  to  start  with  plants  and  trees 
 within  my  own  garden  that  I  absolutely 
 love  tried  true  tough  plants  that  um  you 
 know  just  can  survive  our  element  can 
 survive  all  the  microclimates  that  we 
 have  here  in  Bureau  Beach  and  along  the 
 the  areas  that  I  work  things  that  I've 
 used  in  tons  and  tons  of  gardens  through 
 the  treasure  and  Space  Coast  that  I  know 
 that  I  can  rely  on  to  actually  live  and 
 be  be  strong  and  sturdy  and  handle  pest 
 situation  handle  our  Reigns  and  and 
 whatnot  so  I  will  in  that  in  that  video 
 I  kind  of  just  give  you  the 
 characteristics  of  the  plant  how  to  care 
 for  it  when  to  fertilize  it  what  to 
 fertilize  it  with  and  then  just 
 generally  um  overall  maintenance  and 
 some  companion  plant  ideas  like  this 
 plant  will  go  well  with  this  plant 
 grouping  and  and  so  on  just  to  kind  of 
 really  give  you  kind  of  a  head  start  on 
 that  particular  material  I  get  those 
 questions  all  the  time  so  CH  Bryce  and  I 
 just  started  a  series  and  I  hope  that 
 you  guys  find  it  helpful  so  I  uh  um  yeah 
 I  think  I  filled  everything  in  that  fit 
 everything  into  this  video  that  I  wanted 
 to  if  there's  anything  I  missed  there's 
 tons  of  plants  here  and  then  please  just 
 put  the  time  stamp  down  below  and  let  me 
 know  and  I  can  answer  the  question  about 
 whatever  particular  plant  or  tree  that  I 
 may  have  missed  um  other  than  that 
 comment  true  Gardener  you  guys  because  I 
 don't  know  how  long  this  video  is  I  feel 
 like  I've  been  talking  a  long  time  and 
 so  uh  if  you  watched  the  whole  video 
 then  you  are  a  true  Gardener  like  me  and 
 I  look  forward  to  seeing  you  guys  in 
 every  every  video  and  I  hope  I  hope  you 
 see  me  my  videos  pop  up  and  say  I  should 
 grab  a  cup  of  coffee  or  a  glass  of  wine 
 and  just  kind  of  hang  out  with  Jen  and 
 you  know  we're  just  going  to  talk  plants 
 and  trees  and  and  you  get  some 
 inspiration  from  it  so  but  um  yeah  check 
 us  out  on  Instagram  I  know  Bryce  was 
 getting  ready  to  remind  me  of  that  check 
 us  out  on 
 Instagram  yes  and  um  don't  forget  to 
 like  And  subscribe  what  I  always  forget 
 I  will  see  you  guys  in  the  very  next 
 video  and  you  guys  have  a  great  and 
 lovely  day  woo  good  job  Mom  thank  you 
 [Music] 
 babe

---

 [Music] 
 hey  you  guys  welcome  back  to  week  two  of 
 plant  of  the  week  so  this  is  one  of  my 
 favorites  I  mean  they're  all  going  to  be 
 one  of  my  favorites  let's  just  start 
 there  but  I  have  a  couple  hundred 
 favorites  this  is  a  plant  that  I  every 
 time  I  find  it  in  the  nursery  I  always 
 pick  it  up  I  always  try  to  find  a  good 
 home  for  it  because  it  is  just  so 
 Universal  I  use  it  in  so  many  different 
 places  blooms  so  often  it  is  the 
 Brazilian  Red  Cloak 
 these  here  are  in  my  front  yard  so 
 they're  right  on  the  corner  of  my  front 
 yard  and  I  kind  of  just  let  them  pretty 
 much  take  over  this  corner  I  have  this 
 kind  of  ugly  little  box  like  most  of  you 
 have  you  know  every  third  house  I  think 
 has  one  of  these  boxes  in  the  community 
 and  they  do  need  to  access  it  you  can 
 kind  of  see  where  it  folds  up  so  they  do 
 need  to  get  into  this  section  of  it  so  I 
 thought  you  know  let  me  put  something 
 here  that's  going  to  give  and  take  your 
 eye  and  your  attention  to  the  front 
 since  I  can't  put  anything  front  wise 
 here  and  then  um  let  kind  of  just  hang 
 over  so  sometimes  I  let  them  hang  over  a 
 little  bit  too  much  but  this  is  the 
 Brazilian  Red  Cloak  native  to  South 
 America  blooms  beautiful  beautiful  color 
 definitely  all  year  but  mainly  the  heavy 
 blooms  are  through  the  winter  so  um  so 
 if  you're  looking  for  some  winter  color 
 for  those  of  you  guys  who  are  here 
 mostly  in  the  winter  and  a  lot  of  the 
 plants  in  Florida  don't  always  give  you 
 that  color  in  the  winter  the  look  no 
 further  this  is  your  plant  this  is 
 fantastic  plant  grouping  now  these  are 
 actually  bra  on  this  U  blooming  color 
 they're  not  actually  the  flower 
 themselves  there  is  a  little  white 
 flower  if  you  can  see  inside  here  but 
 these  bracks  are  very  similar  to  what 
 bgan  Vilas  do  they  throw  out  this  big 
 colorful  Brack  and  that  really  allows 
 the  pollinators  to  see  them  kind  of  like 
 a  big  red  pinkish  neon  sign  like  look 
 here  and  then  once  they  get  close  they 
 see  that  the  real  where  they  really  want 
 to  to  focus  on  is  the  little  white 
 little  white  blooming  flower  inside  so 
 but  I  appreciate  both  the  White  and  the 
 pink  I  just  think  they're  absolutely 
 gorgeous  and  then  when  they're  not  in 
 bloom  this  Leaf  is  just  so  tropical  so 
 gigantic  I  mean  look  at  it  compared  to 
 the  size  of  my  hand  it's  just  it  just 
 screams  tropical  green  Lush  foliage  and 
 to  top  it  off  it  is  definitely  one  of 
 those  plants  that  you  can  propagate 
 fairly  easy  so  all  you  have  to  do  is 
 take  this  plant  right  here  take  a  couple 
 nodules  down  cut  it  below  the  nodule 
 take  off  some  of  the  branches  so  it 
 sticks  up  nice  and  easy  and  then  put 
 that  guy  right  into  a  nice  well-  drained 
 soil  pot  so  um  I  I  usually  have  to  cut 
 some  of  these  limbs  kind  of  in  half  you 
 know  you  want  them  to  be  to  have  some 
 leaves  on  them  but  you  um  because 
 they're  going  to  provide  energy  and  um 
 the  plant  really  needs  that  but  um 
 sometimes  these  leaves  are  so  big  and  so 
 heavy  for  just  that  one  stem  that  they 
 have  a  tendency  to  fall  over  so  I'll 
 take  that  that  that  Branch  I'll  put  it 
 into  a  nice  pot  and  I'll  do  do  multiple 
 ones  that  way  just  so  you  know  waste  not 
 whatnot  you  know  I  just  I  love  the  idea 
 of  having  more  and  more  of  these  and 
 then  within  two  maybe  three  months  you 
 have  a  nice  solid  little  root  system  on 
 that  stem  and  if  you  have  four  or  five 
 of  them  in  that  grouping  plant  them 
 somewhere  in  the  garden  and  you  have 
 another  clusters  of  these  Beauties  so  I 
 definitely  definitely  think  they're 
 worth  the  time  um  fertilizing  I 
 fertilize  these  with  bgi  buganvilia 
 fertilizer  um  most  blooming  fertilizers 
 will  work  really  really  nice  I  do  have 
 to  add  potassium  to  my  my  soil  here  we  a 
 little  bit  potassium  deficient  within  my 
 um  pH  level  and  my  soil  in  my  garden  and 
 so  I  always  encourage  you  guys  I  know 
 that  everybody  wants  to  fertilize  the 
 plant  or  the  tree  with  a  specific  name 
 type  of  fertilizer  but  what  you're 
 really  doing  is  you're  you're  putting 
 the  fertilizer  into  the  soil  and  the 
 plant  is  absorbing  that  so  kind  of  find 
 out  what  your  soil  is  lacking  and  then 
 add  that  to  your  soil  and  that  itself  is 
 fertilizer  so  um  that  a  on  that  right 
 yes  we  can  we  can  do  a  show  you  if  you 
 guys  would  like  to  know  more  information 
 on  you  know  how  to  maintain  the  the 
 proper  soil  for  for  the  type  of 
 plantings  that  you  guys  like  then 
 absolutely  let  us  know  put  it  in  the 
 comments  down  below  and  uh  we'll  we'll 
 put  that  together  Bryce  and  I  so  but  for 
 right  now  let's  focus  on  these  guys  so 
 these  guys  are  full  like  heavy  Growers 
 so  I  would  say  twice  a  year  I  do  a  good 
 cut  back  so  I  will  take  off  about  three 
 feet  along  the  top  and  along  a  little 
 bit  of  edging  along  the  sides  and  that's 
 mainly  so  air  can  penetrate  through  to 
 the  this  plant  because  it's  so  dense  and 
 so  full  that  um  if  I  don't  do  that  it'll 
 be  kind  of  um  beautiful  on  the  outskirts 
 but  all  the  inside  will  be  pretty  bald 
 and  then  you  have  a  tendency  to  with 
 that  much  that  much  heavy  plantings  on 
 the  outside  for  you  to  get  a  fungus  or 
 you  know  just  come  up  with  it'll  come  up 
 with  other  other  issues  so  definitely 
 take  the  time  to  do  that  trimming  and 
 then  reward  yourself  by  putting  some  of 
 those  trimmings  into  um  you  know  into 
 some  pots  or  sharing  them  with  neighbors 
 and  friends  and  and  get  them  out  here 
 because  the  hummingbirds  love  them  you 
 know  they're  just  they're  such  an 
 attractant  in  in  general  so  you  know 
 share  them  through  Florida  so  Florida 
 California  these  are  great  places  for 
 the  Brazilian  Red  cloaks  um  one  thing 
 about  these  guys  you  do  want  to  make 
 sure  you  have  well-  drained  soil  for 
 them  so  clay  environment's  not  so  much 
 Marl  they  don't  love  it  you  really  have 
 to  make  sure  that  you've  loosened  that 
 soil  and  created  some  some  air  in  that 
 um  in  that  new  planting  soil  um  and  then 
 you  want  to  make  sure  that  you  irrigate 
 it  you  want  to  make  sure  that  you  water 
 it  so  these  guys  love  water  water  during 
 the  summer  months  about  three  to  four 
 times  a  year  so  they  only  need  about  15 
 minutes  or  so  but  they  really  really 
 grow  super  super  well  and  keep  a  nice 
 shiny  leaf  with  um  with  extra  watering 
 and  you'll  notice  because  they'll  tend 
 to  melt  on  you  if  you  don't  do  that  so 
 um  watering  is  super  super  important 
 with  these  guys  um  but  overall  I  kind  of 
 just  let  them  do  their  thing  I  let  them 
 and  keep  them  around  eight  n  foot  tall 
 and  as  wide  as  my  corner  will  allow  it 
 until  I  come  in  I  do  my  trimming  so 
 super  easy  to  work  with  definitely  a 
 go-to  plant  for  Florida  um  and  plant 
 them  in  any  kind  of  companion  plant 
 grouping  that  loves  um  that  loves 
 moisture  and  you  can't  go  wrong  so  well 
 I  hope  this  video  helps  if  there's  any 
 questions  that  I  didn't  get  to  answer 
 then  please  stick  in  the  comments  down 
 below  and  I  will  be  sure  to  address  it 
 there  so  like  And  subscribe  comment  and 
 Instagram  what  would  I  do  without  this 
 guy  please  like  And  subscribe  check  us 
 out  on  Instagram  and  comment  true 
 Gardener  if  you  guys  made  it  through  the 
 whole  video  because  you're  a  true 
 Gardener  just  like  me  and  I  will  uh  I'll 
 see  you  in  the  next  one 
 [Music] 
 bye-bye

---

 hey  you  guys  welcome  back  so  today's 
 video  is  going  to  be  the  first  video  in 
 a  new  series  I'm  really  excited  about 
 this  one  because  I  I  want  to  share  with 
 you  guys  a  plan  of  the  week  one  of  my 
 favorite  plants  every  single  week  tell 
 you  a  little  bit  about  that  plant  the 
 characteristics  about  it  where  it  loves 
 to  be  planted  where  it  loves  to  grow 
 where  it  does  the  best  um  just  the 
 overall  maintenance  requirements  on  it 
 how  to  fertilize  and  then  some  companion 
 plants  that  do  super  super  well  with  it 
 so  this  will  be  hopefully  a  great 
 shopping  list  for  some  of  you  guys  who 
 are  looking  to  recreate  some  of  that 
 same  look  that  I  that  I  use  within  my 
 Landscapes  and  within  my  own  garden  so 
 um  I  thought  we'd  start  right  here  in  my 
 garden  and  uh  of  course  with  one  of  my 
 favorite  plants  but  before  we  get 
 started  Bryce  if  you  want  to  kind  of  pan 
 around  and  kind  of  let  everybody  see 
 just  kind  of  how  these  plants  set  into 
 um  set  into  their 
 environment  so  if  this  is  the  kind  of 
 look  that  you  guys  like  if  you  kind  of 
 like  a  heavy  tropical  kind  of  layered 
 type  of  landscape  look  um  then  these  are 
 the  plants  that  I'm  going  to  Showcase 
 now  and  every  single  week  and  into  the 
 near  future  and  tell  you  a  little  bit 
 about  some  of  the  fun  stuff  so  within  my 
 own  garden  it  may  be  time  for  updated 
 backyard  tour  oh  you  know  what  it 
 probably  is  if  you  guys  are  up  for  a 
 backyard  spring  updated  tour  and  I  go 
 through  the  plants  individually  and  tell 
 you  a  little  bit  about  them  and  um 
 outline  them  a  bit  then  let  me  know  in 
 the  comments  down  below  and  and  I  will 
 do  an  upgra  updated  um  spring  or  early 
 summer  garden  tour  so  but  for  now  we're 
 going  to  focus  on  one  plant  in 
 particular  I  am  going  to  focus  on  I'm 
 sure  this  is  a  shocker  to  to  you  guys 
 who  watch  my  videos  but  I'm  going  to 
 focus  on  the  Sania  I  absolutely  love 
 love  working  with  sanchia  so  this  is 
 sesia  noblis  it  is  an  overall  super 
 super  hearty  plant  which  is  pretty  much 
 the  only  plants  that  I  tend  to  work  with 
 in  my  very  own  Garden  it  is  a  Fant 
 fantastic  fantastic  Leaf  color  I  love 
 the  variations  I  just  I  just  love  this 
 outline  I  love  the  way  it  shows  off  in  a 
 garden  and  then  how  easy  it  is  to  work 
 with  so  the  the  sesia  sesia  sists  are  um 
 native  to  Peru  which  ironically  enough  I 
 am  also  native  to  Peru  so  maybe  that's 
 my  secret  fascination  with  it  um  but  I 
 honestly  my  fascination  with  it  is  just 
 overall  how  well  it  does  in  so  many 
 different  environments  it  is  planted 
 here  and  pretty  much  good  Sun  um  but 
 then  I've  got  them  planted  all  the  way 
 at  the  end  there  they  get  very  very 
 little  Sun  okay  so  you  can  tell  the 
 difference  between  what  we're  looking  at 
 with  a  little  bit  more  sun  we're  a 
 little  bit  bleached  out  here  a  little 
 bit  brighter  in  tone  and  color  and  then 
 when  we  get  down  here  into  the  shade 
 look  at  the  how  the  coloration  changes 
 it  goes  into  a  deeper  pattern  almost 
 like  a  cream  color  rather  than  a  yellow 
 super 
 cool  and  it's  amazing  to  me  how  the  same 
 plant  can  do  so  well  and  in  a  full  sun 
 environment  and  a  partial  sun 
 environment  so  if  it's  going  to  be 
 planted  in  a  full  sun  environment  you 
 want  to  make  sure  that  it's  planted 
 underneath  the  canopy  of  trees  because 
 it  can  absolutely  burn  along  the  edges 
 if  it's  not  kind  of  not  kind  of  a  little 
 filtered  a  little  protected  so  this  is 
 about  as  much  sun  as  I  like  to  see  it 
 get  so  early  morning  midday  but  by  the 
 time  it's  6  or  7  o'clock  in  the  evening 
 you  want  it  to  not  have  any  sun  on  it  at 
 all  you  want  it  to  be  protected  so  this 
 is  a  fantastic  environment  for  it  when 
 they're  like  this  you'll  notice  that  the 
 leaves  are  a  little  bit  more  yellow  um  a 
 little  brighter  in  coloration  um  when 
 they're  planted  in  the  shade  environment 
 you'll  notice  that  the  leaves  are  more 
 um  more  of  a  almost  like  this  is  more  of 
 a  whiter  tone  to  it  versus  a  yellow  and 
 the  leaves  instead  of  it  being  green 
 they're  almost  like  a  almost  like  a 
 charcoal  or  a  black  coloring  so  it  kind 
 of  takes  on  a  whole  different  kind  of 
 light  but  what  it  does  do  is  does  bring 
 kind  of  a  spotlight  or  a  brightness  to  a 
 dark  area  in  the  garden  so  I  often  use 
 them  in  shad 
 environments  this  is  their  overall 
 height  that  I  like  to  keep  them  at  I 
 usually  put  them  in  an  area  where  I  use 
 them  as  a  skirt  planting  so  Bryce  if  you 
 kind  of  pop  over  top  of  this  plant 
 you'll  see  that  the  queen  Emma  back  here 
 she's  got  a  beautiful  centerpiece  to  her 
 but  she's  got  kind  of  an  ugly  trunk 
 that's  here  so  they  do  a  great  job  of 
 kind  of  disguising  that  Trunk  by  really 
 giving  you  a  nice  skirt  boundary  not  to 
 mention  and  and  not  to  mention  yes 
 exactly  covering  the  GFI  Outlets  that  we 
 have  there  so  they're  just  kind  of  a 
 great  overall  blocker  and  easily  kept  at 
 3ot  3  and  1/2t  tall  and  um  just  really 
 really  do  well  now  when  I  do  my  trimming 
 on  them  I  usually  just  hand  prune  these 
 guys  I'll  take  my  my  clippers  and  I  just 
 hand  prune  them  to  whatever  size  that  I 
 want  them  to  be  so  I  will  make  sure  that 
 the  edges  here  in  the  front  I  keep  them 
 a  little  bit  shorter  and  I  allow  the 
 taller  and  the  in  the  center  area  to 
 kind  of  round  up  higher  so  to  the  front 
 a  little  bit  shorter  and  then  round  up 
 and  then  I  do  let  these  grow  together  so 
 the  reason  one  more  time  absolutely  so 
 when  I  do  my  trimming  on  these  guys  what 
 I  do  is  I  take  my  handy  Clippers  and 
 you'll  kind  of  see  along  this  front 
 section  I'll  trim  them  a  little  tighter 
 along  the  front  face  of  it  and  then  as  I 
 come  up  here  I'll  let  them  get  a  little 
 bit  taller  so  I'll  leave  these  guys  a 
 little  bit  taller  and  then  kind  of  layer 
 down  and  trim  them  so  I  know  it  sounds 
 like  a  lot  but  it's  really  takes  me  no 
 time  to  trim  these  guys  I'll  just  take 
 the  tops  and  just  niit  them  off  leave  it 
 leave  this  a  little  bit  taller  and  then 
 take  the  bottoms  and  and  kind  of  keep 
 them  nice  and  nipped  this  will  allow 
 that  plant  to  stay  nice  and  Compact  and 
 and  thin  but  you  definitely  do  want  to 
 trim  these  guys  I  seen  people  let  them 
 get  four  five  six  foot  tall  CU  just  like 
 anything  in  Florida  it  will  continue  to 
 grow  even  if  it's  a  dwarf  plant  but  you 
 really  do  want  to  allow  that  air  to  get 
 through  the  middle  of  them  because  they 
 can  get  so  dense  and  so  thick  which 
 makes  them  beautiful  but  it  can  also 
 make  them  have  a  a  fungus  or  you  know 
 get  attached  by  bugs  because  there's  no 
 air  that  gets  to  the  inside  so  when  you 
 do  that  light  trimming  it  allows  that 
 air  to  circulate  all  the  way  through  the 
 plant  so  I  trim  about  four  times  a  year 
 every  90  days  I  come  through  and  do  a 
 light  trimming  on  these  what's  great 
 about  a  lot  of  the  Tropicals  that  I  use 
 when  you  do  your  trimming  say  you  trim 
 one  side  too  short  and  you  kind  of  hack 
 hack  at  it  kind  of  like  you  know  kind  of 
 like  cutting  your  bangs  you  know  it  just 
 ends  up  being  an  ugly  trim  don't  worry 
 these  guys  flush  out  nice  and  round  so 
 they're  really  they'll  really  kind  of 
 correct  themselves  so  go  ahead  if  you  do 
 trim  one  side  a  little  bit  off  just  now 
 go  back  to  an  overall  even  plant  even  if 
 it's  going  to  be  smaller  than  what  you 
 anticipated  it  being  because  it'll  round 
 out  and  fluff  right  back  out  so  you  kind 
 of  can't  do  any  harm  to  it  now  this 
 plant  is  a  tropical  plant  does  super 
 well  in  Florida  um  towards  the  South  End 
 um  it  does  not  like  to  be  in 
 temperatures  colder  than  32  so  when 
 it's  32  I  either  cut  cover  them  or  um 
 I'll  notice  that  I'll  get  a  lot  of  burn 
 along  the  edges  of  the  little  leaves  if 
 we  get  into  that  temperature  so  um  I 
 tend  to  cover  them  because  they're  such 
 a  pretty  Leaf  I  hate  to  lose  any  of  it 
 now  when  you  do  get  a  cold  burn  on  them 
 when  it  starts  to  warm  up  for  the  spring 
 just  cut  that  plant  back  and  it'll  flush 
 nice  flush  out  really  really  nice  so  um 
 so  that's  it's  a  it's  a  kind  of  an 
 overall  durable  plant  um  the  plants  that 
 I  tend  to  pair  it  with  are  plants  kind 
 of  like  these  like  I  said  where  I'm 
 trying  to  cover  something  and  I  kind  of 
 want  to  create  a  nice  three-foot  border 
 or  a  3-ft  skirt  in  front  of  them  now  um 
 if  I  don't  plant  them  with  something 
 like  this  popping  out  of  the  middle  of 
 it  or  something  like  a  palm  popping  out 
 of  the  middle  of  it  I'll  take  these  and 
 I'll  plant  them  with  something  like  the 
 Rojo  Congo  um  copper  leaves  or  the  blaze 
 copper  leaves  or  the  margarite  copper 
 leaves  you  see  the  pattern  there  the 
 reason  why  is  because  copper  leaves  um 
 like  that  same  amount  of  moisture  that 
 these  guys  like  copper  leaves  like  water 
 and  so  does  sesia  San  chees  are  not 
 going  to  work  well  in  a  dry  environment 
 so  a  zeroscape  around  aave  um  they 
 really  really  do  like  a  more  moist  a 
 moist  environment  so  they  love  the 
 humidity  of  Florida  you'll  notice  that 
 in  the  midday  Sun  they'll  kind  of  kind 
 of  Wilt  on  you  and  if  you  see  that 
 happening  they're  just  they're  just  too 
 dry  in  that  environment  so  if  you're  not 
 going  to  add  more  water  to  them  then  put 
 them  in  more  of  a  shady  spot  where 
 they're  just  not  drying  out  on  you  as 
 fast  so  um  what  else  um 
 they  do  Bloom  it  is  a  really  pretty 
 tubular  kind  of  Bloom  and  that  happens 
 about  once  a  year  it's  it's  not  um  it's 
 not  huge  um  when  it  does  happen  because 
 it's  so  shortlived  but  it  is  a  lovely 
 Bloom  and  that  usually  happens  right 
 into  late  winter  early  spring  in  that 
 time  frame  and  it's  absolutely  gorgeous 
 but  yeah  so  they  really  do  take  on  that 
 color  but  overall  they  are  a  winner 
 winner  in  my  book  I  don't  have  any 
 trouble  with  pests  and  I  think  that  a 
 lot  of  that  has  to  do  with  is  I  do  trim 
 them  about  every  90  days  so  about  every 
 3  months  I'll  come  through  and  give  them 
 a  little  bit  of  a  haircut  that  lets  that 
 air  get  in  they're  really  able  to  fight 
 off  um  any  kind  of  bugs  or  any  kind  of 
 problems  if  I  do  get  any  type  of  bugs 
 then  I  will  do  a  drench  of  dominion  on 
 them  so  and  I'll  be  sure  to  list  that  in 
 down  below  what  I  use  but  it's  a  pretty 
 easy  drench  you  just  put  a  half  ounce  in 
 with  a  gallon  of  water  and  just  sprinkle 
 it  along  the  top  of  this  and  and  of 
 course  do  what  it  says  drench  it  and 
 it'll  drench  the  root  system  and  help 
 keep  the  plant  healthy  but  yeah  overall 
 it  is  one  of  my  favorite  plants  to  use 
 Hardy  tough  easy  to  work  with  I 
 fertilize  it  with  8212  which  is  a  palm 
 fertilizer  but  it  tends  to  really  really 
 like  that  and  keeps  the  leaves  nice  and 
 shiny  so  um  yeah  if  you  guys  run  across 
 any  other  questions  on  some  sesia  that 
 you  might  have  um  then  please  stick  them 
 in  the  comments  down  below  and  I'd  love 
 to  share  that  with  you  do  not  forget  to 
 like  And  subscribe  and  I  hope  that  the 
 series  is  something  that  you  guys  want 
 to  see  if  you  want  to  you  want  to  know 
 something  specific  about  any  planner 
 tree  then  please  let  me  know  the 
 comments  and  then  I'll  be  sure  to  adapt 
 that  and  add  that  to  the  Future  plant  of 
 the  week  or  tree  of  the  week  if  I  throw 
 one  of  those  in  there  so  all  right  you 
 guys  thank  you  so  much  and  I  will  see 
 you  in  the  next  video  or  see  you  next 
 week  don't  forget  to  follow  us  on 
 Instagram  G  that's  right  don't  forget  to 
 follow  us  on  Instagram  and  um  and  if  you 
 guys  have  made  it  through  this  video 
 then  definitely  put  true  Gardener  in  the 
 comments  down  below  because  you  are  a 
 true  Gardener  if  you  made  it  through  so 
 I  apprec  I  appreciate  your  I  appreciate 
 your  time  and  I  hope  you  learned 
 something  on  the  S  cheia  yeah  see  you 
 later

---

 [Music] 
 well  hey  you  guys  welcome  back  so  we  are 
 in  virau  beach  today  and  we  are  going  to 
 do  another  Garden  Tour  this  is  tour  nine 
 um  this  is  what  I  would  consider  a 
 typical  front  yard  uh  Viro  Beach  style 
 Garden  very  Suburban  kind  of  garden  so  I 
 thought  this  might  appeal  to  a  lot  of 
 people  especially  if  you're  thinking 
 about  Rel  Landscaping  your  front  of  your 
 home  and  you  kind  of  want  it  to  look  a 
 little  bit  different  than  you  know  each 
 neighbor  within  the 
 community  sure  well  since  since  your 
 crew  came  and  took  care  of  it  ever  since 
 then  anybody  that  walks  by  when  I'm 
 outside  says  wow  your  Landscaping  is 
 terrific  who  did  this  isn't  that  amazing 
 feeling  it  it's  a  great  feeling  it's  a 
 great  feeling  well  thank  you  so  much  for 
 entrusting  us  with  uh  with  your  lovely 
 friend  you're  so  happy  the  result  and 
 it's  everything  everything  has  continued 
 to  grow  seven  months  eight  months  end  of 
 July  really  coming  really  the  hottest 
 days  of  the  year  and  how  good  it  looks 
 just  coming  out  of  winter  yeah  yeah  I'm 
 excited  to  see  what  so  many  different 
 colors  of  green  and  we're  starting  to 
 get  some  some  red  and  of  course  blw  my 
 mind  blow  your 
 mind  I  think  that  we  did  a  nice  job  of 
 doing  that  here  and  I'm  excited  to  share 
 it  with  you  this  particular  lot  even 
 though  that  we're  really  going  to  focus 
 mainly  on  the  front  section  it  is  a 
 corner  lot  so  we  were  blessed  to  be  able 
 to  have  a  little  bit  of  room  to  kind  of 
 spread  the  Landscaping  out  a  little  bit 
 more  on  the  corner  and  really  anchor 
 these  sides  in  with  this  Trio  of  trees 
 over  here  to  this 
 side  and  then  it  comes  over  and  this  is 
 kind  of  finale  on  this  side  to  kind  of 
 create  a  nice  bit  of  softness  between  um 
 between  the  homeowners  so  but  yeah  we're 
 going  to  do  our  typical  tour  I'm  going 
 to  walk  and  talk  about  each  of  the  plant 
 trees  and  kind  of  the  reasons  why  I 
 chose  to  put  them  where  I  put  them  and 
 um  just  a  little  bit  about  the 
 characteristics  and  care  instructions 
 and  I'll  be  sure  to  list  the  names  of 
 those  on  the  screen  down  below  so  um  so 
 yeah  let's  just  jump  right  in  and  get  to 
 it  as  you  can  see  coming  up  through  the 
 front  entrance  here  there  is  a  sidewalk 
 that  is  extremely  close  to  the  front  of 
 the  house  so  it  has  a  tendency  to  give 
 the  house  more  of  a  kind  of  a  flat  front 
 you  know  really  really  kind  of  Tidy  and 
 really  kind  of  small  front  entrance  so 
 what  I  really  wanted  to  do  was  kind  of 
 bring  the  Landscaping  down  so  instead 
 inad  of  making  the  Landscaping  really 
 heavy  and  thick  along  the  front  of  the 
 house  I  thought  let's  kind  of  take  it 
 and  just  draw  it  down  and  then  make  the 
 walkway  make  it  more  interactive  so  I 
 brought  it  right  up  to  the  sidewalk  area 
 we  anchored  it  with  a  big  tree  here  so 
 we  have  a  nice  fox  tail  Palm  here  and 
 that's  going  to  kind  of  give  us  a  nice 
 starting  point  what  I  like  about  this  is 
 that  it  allowed  because  we  were  able  to 
 put  a  fox  tail  here  it  allowed  us  to 
 have  a  reason  for  this  bed  to  exist  so 
 it's  like  this  is  this  is  kind  of  our 
 our  starting  point  and  it  gives  us  a 
 nice  bit  of  anchoring  so  this  fox  tail 
 is  going  to  do  a  great  job  of  that  then 
 we  have  some  small  plants  that  are  right 
 up  to  the  front  which  these  are  called 
 dwarf  exor  these  are  the  minimal  small 
 leafed  compact  version  of  the  exor  and  I 
 love  them  they  bloom  about  10  months  out 
 of  the  year  and  doing  super  super  well 
 so  these  are  starting  to  get  established 
 but  keep  in  mind  you  guys  we  are  barely 
 into  spring  it's  March  1st  today  and 
 it's  um  we've  had  some  some  nasty  winds 
 and  some  nasty  cold  front  so  these  poor 
 Palms  have  have  been  beat  to  pieces  with 
 um  this  wind  that  we've  had  this  uh  this 
 past  winter  so  but  as  spring  starts  and 
 early  summer  starts  all  of  this  color  is 
 really  going  to  come  in  but  I  definitely 
 want  to  share  this  video  with  you  so 
 that  way  you  can  really  see  what  um  what 
 it's  going  to  become  so  next  is  the  um 
 dwarf  fire  bush  again  we've  got  a  little 
 bit  of  burn  on  it  from  the  cold  but 
 these  are  going  to  bloom  out  and  butt 
 out  they're  already  starting  and  they're 
 going  to  give  them  a  lot  of  that  fire  or 
 orange  red  kind  of  coloring  which  is 
 really  going  to  compliment  the  dwarf 
 fire  the  dwarf  um  exor  there  so  I  think 
 it's  going  to  do  such  a  nice  job  of 
 complimenting  each  other  because  they're 
 a  little  bit  more  wild  and  crazy  and 
 these  guys  are  real  paired  back  real 
 tidy  real  conformed 
 so  right  here  I  wanted  to  really  dial  it 
 back  so  you  can  see  that  we've  got  a 
 little  bit  of  heaviness  a  little  bit  of 
 weight  at  the  front  but  in  this  middle  I 
 definitely  didn't  want  it  to  be  overdone 
 in  any  kind  of  way  so  I  chose  to  bring 
 in  the  foxtail  ferns  now  foxtail 
 ferns  you  guys  know  I  love  them  you  know 
 I  love  working  with  them  I  love  just 
 kind  of  that  texture  in  the  garden  I 
 love  what  they  do  they're  not  aggressive 
 in  any  space  they  really  do  kind  of 
 create  a  nice  defined  line  I've  used 
 them  in  tropical  Landscapes  I've  used 
 them  in  real  contemporary  Landscapes  and 
 I  think  they  do  so  good  in  both 
 environments  so  they  kind  of  really  do 
 show  off  in  this  space  I  Incorporated  a 
 few  little  Boulders  in  here  to  kind  of 
 tie  them  in  with  that  kind  of  beachy 
 feel  so  I  think  they're  doing  a  nice  job 
 of  that 
 and  then  you  guys  know  how  I  feel  about 
 blue  my  Minds  I  am  a  big  fan  and  so  are 
 my  clients  here  so  they  are  doing  super 
 well  they're  very  very  happy  here  really 
 flushing  out  around  the  space  and  again 
 because  we  are  right  along  the  side  of 
 the  driveway  I  wanted  to  make  sure  that 
 you  know  the  plants  just  didn't  get 
 overtaken  it  it's  just  not  so  aggressive 
 and  so  thick  this  planting  is  about  6 
 months  old  and  it's  really  you  can 
 really  kind  of  see  what  it's  what  it's 
 going  to  be  what  it  really  is 
 establishing  to  do  and  this  this  area 
 right  along  the  driveway  is  really  just 
 going  to  stay  nice  and  Compact  and  small 
 and  then  we  get  to  get  a  little  wild  and 
 crazy  over  over  further  away  because  it 
 it  kind  of  calls  for  that  so  we  finished 
 it  off  with  a  clustering  of  dwarf  exor 
 here  now  in  the  very  near  future  these 
 dwarf  exor  are  going  to  fully  connect  so 
 it's  going  to  go  from  one  blanket 
 planting  to  the  next  blanket  planting 
 into  these  golden  Dews  or  gold  Mounds 
 here  that  are  also  going  to  be  a 
 connected  planting  so  we  kind  of  see 
 kind  of  how  the  how  the  method  goes 
 we're  going  to  have  a  nice  thick 
 grouping  here  a  nice  lower  grouping 
 there  and  then  a  nice  intermediate 
 grouping  here  about  2  and  1/2  foot  so 
 these  are  going  to  be  a  nice  bit  and  all 
 of  these  provide  you  with  color  which  I 
 think  really  does  give  you  that  pop 
 right  by  the  front  door  really  I  don't 
 know  just  really  does  something  for  the 
 space  these  are  not  yet  in  bloom  but  as 
 soon  as  they  are  they're  going  to  give 
 that  beautiful  yellow  tassel  these  are 
 called  dwarf  or  these  are  called  thalis 
 yellow  thalis  and  they're  really  going 
 to  kind  of  be  the  softer  more  Whimsical 
 planting  of  the  beds  so  I  love  what  they 
 what  they  offer  and  I've  got  clustering 
 here  and  a  clustering  on  that  side  and 
 when  that  yellow  pops  out  it  is  a  softer 
 kind  of  look  it  moves  a  lot  through  the 
 garden  it's  just  you  know  I  just  I  just 
 love  what  it  offers  in  the  in  a  breeze 
 and  we  have  such  a  structural  plant  in 
 the  front  here  with  this  male  fall  Agave 
 that  I  really  do  think  that  um  having 
 the  two  spit  of  softness  on  each  side 
 really  kind  of  I  don't  know  pairs  so 
 well  together  so  I  love  the  male  version 
 of  the  fals  aavees  they're  just  so 
 phenomenal  they're  very  very  upright  I 
 use  the  female  version  quite  often  in 
 the  Landscapes  and  they're  they're  kind 
 of  similar  but  they're  um  a  little  more 
 widespread  a  little  shorter  not  quite  as 
 upright  and  aggressive  so  um  that's  the 
 difference  between  the  two  these  are 
 definitely  more  rare  so  when  I  find  them 
 I  definitely  um  I  I  can  incorporate  them 
 and  what's  great  about  these  unlike  the 
 the  female  version  I  usually  pair  the 
 female  version  together  cuz  they  kind  of 
 need  a  little  bit  of  a  support  to  be 
 impactful  but  this  guy  obviously  you 
 know  he  doesn't  need  anything  he's  very 
 very  Dynamic  very  very  interesting  right 
 off  the  bat  so  he's  got  probably  another 
 two  foot  to  go  and  then  he's  fully 
 matured  but  what  a  specimen  he  is  in 
 this  garden  and  really  does  a  great  job 
 of  showcasing  the  front  of  this  house 
 they  didn't  want  to  cover  anything  heavy 
 in  front  of  this  window  but  they 
 definitely  wanted  um  some  some  some 
 impact  here  um  when  I  first  got  here 
 there  was  some  h  biscus  and  some  heavy 
 planting  all  the  way  through  here  and  it 
 just  really  did  nothing  but  cover  the 
 face  of  the  house  and  they  wanted  to 
 open  that  back  up  and  I  think  this 
 really  really  did  the  job  for  that  so  so 
 um  yeah  so  the  male  version  of  the  fal 
 Agave  is  definitely  a  go-to  for  a 
 specimen  piece  in  the  in  the  garden  and 
 then  a  little  pocket  of  the  fox  tail 
 Ferns  and  then  repeated  that  on  that 
 side  as  well  so  I  love  I  love  just 
 dashing  them  in  the  garden  and  you  guys 
 have  noticed  it's  kind  of  a  rinse  and 
 repeat  kind  of  thing  you  know  we've  got 
 the  the  dwarf  exor  the  blue  my  Minds  the 
 fox  tail  ferns  boom  we're  doing  the  same 
 type  of  comp  complimenting  it  on  the 
 other  side  the  same  way  so  it's  the  same 
 kind  of  same  kind  of  Rhythm  the  same 
 kind  of  planting  and  that's  really  what 
 gives  you  that  that  streamline  type  of 
 planting  it's  really  becomes  more 
 organic  because  that  flow  of  heights  and 
 levels  stay  the  same  as  well  as  the  same 
 kind  of  color  combinations  so  I  I  really 
 I  just  I  think  it's  going  to  come  out  so 
 well  in  in  another  6  months  months  to  a 
 year  this  Garden's  really  going  to 
 mature  into  that  that  bright  colorful  um 
 compact  it's  definitely  going  to  be 
 compact  but  it's  going  to  be  a  lush 
 tropical  garden  so  I'm  excited  for  them 
 to  see  that  come  to  fruition  so  right 
 here  now  you  can  tell  this  is  exactly 
 what  happens  to  sesia  when  we  get  the 
 cold  weather  they  start  to  curl  and  they 
 um  they  do  do  not  like  the  cold  snaps 
 but  look  at  they're  bouncing  back 
 there's  new  growth  all  over  them  and 
 they're  going  to  be  gorgeous  this 
 summer 
 now  just  like  I  normally  do  you  guys 
 know  how  much  I  love  my  pyate  Palms  I 
 love  how  a  Pym  do  date  palm  kind  of 
 finishes  off  a  bed  it  becomes  the 
 backdrop  to  this  and  you  see  that  I  tend 
 to  use  these  guys  as  a  screen  as  a 
 backdrop  here  so  I  think  that  these  are 
 doing  a  great  job  and  when  this  becomes 
 that  8  to  10  foot  height  back  here  it's 
 really  going  to  do  a  good  job  of  kind  of 
 making  the  house  to  the  side  go  away 
 when  you're  looking  at  the  front  of  the 
 house  um  from  the  road  here  it's  really 
 going  to  give  you  a  nice  big  wall  of 
 green  fronds  and  so  I  love  I  love  how 
 they  do  that  and  what's  great  about  them 
 is  that  they'll  never  outgrow  that  space 
 so  once  they  get  up  to  their  full  grown 
 height  it's  going  to  be  perfect  and  then 
 the  plants  directly  under  them  which  are 
 getting  kind  of  lost  right  now  because 
 the  tree  is  not  grown  up  yet  large 
 enough  but  the  plants  underneath  of  them 
 you  can  keep  those  guys  at  4  foot  tall 
 so  when  those  are  4  foot  tall  and  the 
 pig8  Palm  reaches  its  matured  height  at 
 12T  tall  now  you've  got  about  4  and  a 
 half  to  5ot  of  trunk  perfect  for  that 
 understory  planting  to  become  a  lush 
 thick  layer  of  four  to  five  foot  and 
 then  you  got  that  canopy  frond  that  pops 
 out  of  that  grouping  of  color  so  you 
 know  it  just  really  really  does  kind  of 
 make  you  a  nice  wall  this  can  remain  at 
 three  foot  so  you've  got  three  4  foot 
 and  then  of  course  you  go  all  the  way  up 
 to  whatever  height  that  Palm  is  until  it 
 reaches  maturity  and  then  you  got  a 
 great  kind  of  ending  to  the  landscape 
 here  now  there  fortunate  enough  where  we 
 have  a  nice  corner  lot  it's  kind  of  a 
 pie  shaped  lot  so  it  widens  out  here  so 
 we  were  able  to  kind  of  create  some 
 privacy  these  Sylvester  Palms  do  a 
 fantastic  job  of  that  and  they're  really 
 doing  I  don't  know  I  just  I  just  love 
 the  way  they  look  when  you  first  come 
 out  of  their  doorway  looking  over  this 
 way  it's  just  this  big  Fountain  spread 
 of  palm  trees  that  they  offer  I  just  or 
 Palm  frons  that  they  offer  I  just  love 
 it 
 and  to  tie  that  in  we  did  a  second 
 island  over  on  the  opposite  side 
 so  I  don't  have  a  corner  lot  at  my  house 
 but  I  love  when  I  get  to  work  with  a 
 corner  lot  because  you  really  do  get  to 
 give  you  almost  an  State  likee  feel  in  a 
 typical  Suburban  yard  so  we  had  so  much 
 front  roadway  advantage  that  we  were 
 able  to  kind  of  create  a  secondary 
 Island  planting  here  I  wish  it  was  in 
 bloom  for  you  guys  but  I'll  go  over  the 
 color  palette  that  it's  going  to  be  in 
 no  time  so  right  here  we  have  a  trio  of 
 Sylvester 
 palms  and  then  we've  got  a  trio 
 underneath  of  King  SEO  Palms  A  little 
 dab  of  some  foxtail  ferns  with  some 
 boulders  to  kind  of  tie  in  to  make  it  a 
 little  bit  interesting  here  that  whole 
 back  area  there  is  dwarf  fire  bush  now 
 those  dwarf  fire  bush  are  not  in  their 
 Glory  yet  they're  going  to  and  they're 
 getting  ready  to  but  they've  got  buds 
 everywhere  but  they're  going  to  Bud  out 
 and  be  a  beautiful  orange  red  Bloom  and 
 you  know  they're  native  to  Florida  they 
 really  bring  in  the  birds  and  I  just  I 
 just  can't  wait  to  see  what  they're 
 going  to  offer  um  this  landscaping  and 
 then  just  like  we  did  in  the  front  over 
 there  on  these  two  sides  as  well  we  have 
 um  yellow  thalis  and  look  at  they're 
 starting  to  bloom  know  Bryce  if  you  can 
 catch  that  bloom  on  on  that  there  but 
 they're  going  to  be  covered  with  that 
 yellow  flower  in  no  time  and  they  just 
 have  so  much  movement  in  the  garden 
 every  time  the  wind  blows  when  they're 
 in  full  bloom  it's  just  it's  almost  like 
 a  grass  it's  just  amazing  how  how  they 
 um  soften  the  corners  so  I'll  usually 
 kind  of  pair  them  in  groups  on  the 
 corners  or  all  the  way  in  the  back  of  a 
 garden  so  you  just  see  those  tassels 
 kind  of  flow  through  it  and  I  just 
 absolutely  love  it  but  yes  so  we've  got 
 orange  and  reds  to  the  back  yellows  on 
 the  corner  dark  greens  and  light  Greens 
 in  the  middle  and  just  tapered  in  a 
 couple  little  blue  my  Minds  because  why 
 not  so  um  but  yeah  I  love  this  island 
 and  I  love  when  all  these  colors  come 
 together  it's  really  going  to  feel  like 
 one  Landscaping  in  the  garden  which  is 
 which  is  amazing  for  a  typical  Suburban 
 yard  so  it's  it's  lovely  that  they're 
 going  to  kind  of  get  that  whole 
 widespread  feel  of  of  a  um  of  a  big 
 tropical  landscape  in  such  a  really 
 really  small  space  so  well  I  hope  you 
 guys  enjoyed  the  video  and  if  you  have 
 have  any  questions  that  I  may  have  not 
 been  able  to  address  in  this  um  in  this 
 quick  tour  then  please  leave  them  in  the 
 comments  down  below  I'd  be  happy  to  get 
 to  them  for  those  of  you  guys  who  are 
 new  to  my  channel  my  name  is  Jennifer 
 bevans  I  am  a  landscape  designer  here  in 
 Vero  Beach  Florida  and  we  service  and 
 create  Landscapes  just  like  you  see  here 
 we'll  come  in  and  renovate  remove  the 
 old  landscape  and  then  kind  of  create  a 
 whole  new  vision  for  your  space  and  we 
 do  the  purchasing  of  material  the  prep 
 work  and  installation  with  our  in-house 
 installation  team  so  give  us  a  call  if 
 you  like  to  have  some  work  done  and  we'd 
 love  to  work  with  you  um  we  service 
 areas  as  far  north  as  Satellite  Beach 
 and  we  go  all  the  way  down  the  coast 
 from  Satellite  Beach  to  Sebastian  buau 
 Beach  down  to  Jupiter  Stewart  area  so 
 yeah  give  us  a  call  if  you're  looking  to 
 have  some  work  done  and  I  would  look 
 forward  to  meeting  you  don't  forget  to 
 like  subscribe  that's  right  R  see  what 
 we  do  without  him  um  so  don't  forget  to 
 like  And  subscribe  and  um  follow  us  on 
 Instagram  and  what  else  monkey  say 
 monkey  do  what  else  check  out  the  next 
 video  check  out  the  next  video  I'll  see 
 you  guys  there  I  just  love  them  I  think 
 I  told  you  that  um  before  I  even  met  you 
 I  had  this  plant  and  I  was  just  finding 
 the  right  place  for  it  to  go  and  this 
 this  is  it  and  I  really  do  think  it  it 
 com  a  statement  here  well  we're  we're 
 really  pleased  with  it  it  used  to  be  as 
 we  drive  in  the 
 driveway  my  wife  would  look  and  shake 
 her  head  and  say  I  really  hate  this 
 Landscaping  it  could  be  so  much  better 
 and  now  as  we  drive  in  she  says  wait  I 
 want  to  stop  I  want  to  look  at  my 
 landscape  oh  I  love  it  I  love 
 it

---

 well  hey  you  guys  so  today's  video  is 
 going  to  be  a  little  bit  different  I'm 
 getting  this  question  a  lot  on  just  how 
 I  generally  go  about  setting  up  my 
 plantings  how  I  kind  of  get  the  look 
 that  uh  that  you  guys  are  seeing  in  a 
 lot  of  the  walking  tour  videos  that  I'm 
 doing  so  I  thought  I'd  bring  you  on  a 
 little  bit  early  um  the  plants  are  not 
 quite  in  the  ground  yet  they're  sitting 
 in  pot  so  I  thought  this  is  a  a  perfect 
 time  to  kind  of  share  with  you  uh  just 
 kind  of  my  style  how  I  how  I  set  the 
 beds  in  how  I  set  the  beds  up  and  and 
 kind  of  create  that  that  future  look 
 that  it's  going  to  look  like  in  about  6 
 months  to  a  year  so  that  way  when  you 
 guys  are  are  starting  your  new  plantings 
 this  might  give  you  a  little  bit  of 
 insight  on  you  know  how  to  recreate  that 
 style  for  yourselves  if  it's  a  look  that 
 you  like  so  I'm  going  to  flip  this 
 camera  around  and  kind  of  just  walk  you 
 through  um  kind  of  walk  you  through  the 
 steps  and  the  layers  and  the  and 
 obviously  the  plant  name  so  uh  yeah  so  I 
 hope  this  helps  and  I'll  see  you  in  the 
 next 
 video  okay  so  here  we  are  you  guys  this 
 is  a  new  front  Landscaping  the  trees 
 went  in  yesterday  and  the  plants  are  set 
 up  and  ready  for  install  so  we're  going 
 to  start  over  here  in  this  left  bed  now 
 this  left  island  is  pretty  significantly 
 large  and  it  it  allowed  us  to  kind  of  uh 
 create  a  little  bit  of  a  walkway  space 
 to  kind  of  give  us  a  little  bit  of  a 
 division  here  um  this  is  the  the  garage 
 area  and  as  you  guys  know  most  of  us  all 
 use  the  garage  as  entry  points  so  I 
 thought  what  a  great  way  to  utilize  um 
 kind  of  breaking  up  this  bed  a  little 
 bit  so  we're  going  to  do  a  stone  path 
 into  this  section  to  the  back  of  that 
 stone  path  really  kind  of  want  to  soften 
 that  wall  and  the  hose  area  so  we're 
 going  to  do  dwarf  elephant  ears  those 
 are  dwarf  elas  and  they're  kind  of 
 staggered  in  that  grouping  as  you  as  you 
 can  see  because  I  want  them  to  connect 
 pretty  quickly  together  and  they're 
 going  to  be  a  nice  three  three  and  1/2t 
 um  rear 
 backdrop  now  on  the  outside  of  the 
 walkway  I  really  want  to  keep  it  nice 
 and  in  controll  because  this  isn't  a  big 
 space  it's  not  a  big  this  is  a 
 three-foot  walkway  so  I  don't  want  in 
 any  way  this  to  feel  overtaken  so  I'm 
 going  to  use  four  fox  tail  ferns  they're 
 going  to  Cluster  really  nice  and  tight 
 together  about  four  about  two  foot  tall 
 which  is  great  then  I've  got  mamy  croin 
 these  are  the  little  Fireball  mamy  croin 
 and  they're  going  to  kind  of  do  that 
 same  thing  you  kind  of  see  how  I  have 
 them  nice  and  tight  together  because  I 
 want  them  to  group  almost  like  a  a 
 connective  uh  connective  I  would  say  a 
 hedge  but  I'm  kind  of  scared  to  say 
 hedge  cuz  that's  not  what  they're  going 
 to  do  you  can  kind  of  see  how  we  have 
 nice  divided  Brakes  in  that  so  it  won't 
 feel  hedge  like  and  these  two  textures 
 are  so  different  once  they're  grown  in 
 they  play  so  good  together  this  glossy 
 really  really  glossy  colorful  Leaf  mixed 
 with  this  very  feathery  soft  vertical 
 type  of  look  I  love  how  that  that  works 
 and  I  wanted  something  pretty  controlled 
 right  around  that  fals  Agave  because  I 
 want  that  fals  Agave  to  look  like  it's 
 popping  up  out  of  the  middle  of  a  very 
 controlled  lower  planting  so  it's 
 definitely  going  to  do  that  then  we  have 
 a  clustering  of  the  fox  tail  ferns  again 
 we  have  a  trio  of  s  sesia  now  I  know 
 this  is  not  the  look  of  sesia  that  you 
 normally  see  this  is  kind  of  what  they 
 look  like  when  they're  newly  planted 
 they're  they're  not  super  overwhelming 
 but  they  do  become  such  a  beautiful 
 plant  as  they  Groot  together  and  widen 
 out  and  just  become  become  a  nice  nice 
 beautiful  cluster  right  on  each  side  of 
 the  walkway  we're  at  that  same  point 
 where  we  don't  want  those  San  cheesy  or 
 anything  too  big  to  come  over  into  this 
 space  so  these  blue  my  minds  are  going 
 to  do  a  great  job  of  that  and  then  it's 
 kind  of  a  rinse  and  repeat  right  by  the 
 front  entrance  because  this  is  a  very 
 similar  look  to  the  front  door  I  want 
 each  side  to  have  a  very  symmetrical 
 feeling  and  and  so  kind  of  keep  that  in 
 mind  when  you're  Landscaping  your  own 
 garden  to  kind  of  make  sure  that  you 
 find  a  rhythm  and  just  repeat  that  over 
 and  over  and  then  throw  in  a  little  bit 
 of  punch  like  something  like  this  to 
 kind  of  give  it  even  more  interest  so  we 
 have  a  foxtail  fern  grouping  here  again 
 we  have  a  nice  little  swoop  of  these 
 mamy  croin  here  and  you  kind  of  see  how 
 we're  how  that's  working  so  we're  going 
 to  Cluster  these  nice  and  tight  together 
 we  have  a  little  bit  of  height  to  the 
 back  with  the  sesia  that's  really  going 
 to  make  this  color  pop  and  then  to 
 especially  make  the  color  Pop  I  chose 
 something  as  simple  as  a  green  arbac 
 cola  this  is  going  to  start  this 
 connection  here  and  you  see  how  it 
 curves  down  and  angles  this  way  so  it 
 swoops  this  way  when  the  other  colorful 
 plants  swoop  this  way  and  then  you  see 
 there's  a  break  and  then  we  do  the  blaze 
 copper  leaf  and  they  swoop  this  way  hope 
 the  camera  is  really  showing  that  to  you 
 guys  it's  kind  of  hard  to  do  that  on 
 this  gimbal  but  and  then  now  we've 
 repeated  the  rhythm  again  with  the  sesia 
 on  the  outside  and  they're  going  to 
 swoop  this  way  so  it's  a  very  ying  and 
 yang  type  of  look  um  which  I  I  love  that 
 now  it  you  can  tell  the  difference 
 obviously  now  in  the  garden  but  wait  6 
 months  from  now  when  everything  grows  in 
 and  the  Heights  and  the  levels  and  the 
 textures  and  the  colors  and  everything 
 comes  together  together  it's  really 
 going  to  look  like  a  really  layered 
 landscape  and  we're  really  not  dealing 
 with  that  many  plants  here  to  create 
 that  so  um  I  did  kind  of  create  a  little 
 bit  of  a  buffer  planting  here  with  the 
 kusas  they're  going  to  create  a  nice  5ft 
 wall  so  that  way  when  my  client's 
 sitting  on  the  porch  here  um  the 
 obviously  the  neighbor's  driveway  and 
 she  Parks  right  there  so  that's  going  to 
 kind  of  give  her  a  little  bit  of  a  a 
 little  bit  of  a  nice  barrier  there  so  I 
 think  that's  going  to  be  great  um  this 
 is  a  King  Alexander 
 triple  and  it's  a  stunner  it's  perfect 
 for  this  location  in  the  garden  and  then 
 of  course  we  flanked  it  with  two 
 beautiful  fox  tail 
 palms  and  then  just  to  give  that  little 
 area  over  there  a  bit  of  a  punch  I  love 
 that  devil  King  Alexander  I  just  I 
 really  just  I  think  that's  going  to  come 
 together  so  nicely  and  I  love  the  idea 
 that  as  you're  coming  up  this  walkway 
 here  and  then  the  other  walkway  The  Rock 
 walkway  and  situations  you're  walking 
 under  a  canopy  of  of  palm  frons  I  just 
 to  me  I  just  think  that's  so  magical  so 
 um  so  you  know  that's  that's  one  way  to 
 just  Jazz  up  two  front  entrance  beds  um 
 and  it's  it's  not  a  lot  of  material  it's 
 but  it's  a  lot  of  impact  and  then 
 hopefully  Brenda  will  invite  me  back  in 
 about  6  months  and  I  can  do  an  updated 
 Tour  on  this  so  that  way  you  guys  can 
 see  everything  grown  in  and  in  the 
 ground  and  really  see  those  different 
 Leaf  textures  really  come  to  life  in 
 here  and  and  what  they  do  so  well  I  sure 
 hope  this  video  helps  if  you  has  if  you 
 guys  have  any  questions  then  please 
 leave  in  the  comments  down  below  and 
 I'll  do  my  best  to  um  to  get  back  to  you 
 on 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 that 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 n 
 [Music] 
 he

---

 Well,  hey  you  guys.  Happy  Saturday.  So, 
 today's  video  is  going  to  be  quick  and 
 succinct.  It's  going  to  be  based  pretty 
 much  on  how  to  care  for  your  buganilla 
 trees.  So,  this  video  is  inspired  by 
 Deborah.  Deborah,  hello,  if  you're 
 watching.  Um  Deborah  hired  me  to  do  her 
 uh  her  new  landscaping,  and  she  asked  me 
 to  incorporate  some  Buggania  plants 
 within  her  um  within  her  new  design.  And 
 then  she  quickly  backed  right  off  of 
 that  and  said,  "Yeah,  yeah,  yeah,  no, 
 no."  I  get  sucked  in  every  single  time 
 um  at  the  stores,  at  the  big  box  stores, 
 the  nurseries  on  bugganas.  Um  and  then  I 
 bring  them  home  and  then  a  month  later 
 they  look  like  a  bucket  of  sticks.  It's 
 where  buganas  come  to  die,  my  house.  And 
 so  she's  like,  I'm  not  going  to  do  it 
 again.  So  this  that's  happened  to  a  lot 
 of  us  and  I'm  sure  I'm  sure  and  it's 
 even  happened  to  me.  So  I  completely 
 understand.  And  so  I  want  to  do  a  quick 
 video  on  four  quick  tips  on  what  you 
 guys  can  do  to  keep  your  bugan  villas, 
 you  know,  pretty  much  just,  you  know, 
 nursery  worthy.  I  mean,  just  really 
 busting  with  blooms  because  they  bloom 
 all  year  long.  I  think  there's  very  very 
 few  plants  and  trees  that  give  you  the 
 impact  that  buganas  offer.  So  um  they're 
 definitely  worth  it.  They're  definitely 
 worth  a  little  extra  care  in  the  garden. 
 Um  and  and  you  know,  I  just  think 
 there's  a  little  misconception  about  um 
 how  to  care  for  them.  So  tip  number  one, 
 first  things  first,  they  definitely  need 
 sun.  So  they  need  a  minimum  of  five 
 hours  of  sun  every  single  day.  So  you 
 want  to  make  sure  that  they're  planted 
 in  the  proper  location  within  your 
 garden.  Now  my  boogan,  let  me  share  mine 
 with  you.  So  this  is  my  girl  here  and 
 then  I've  got  one  there 
 and  one 
 right  there.  Now  mine  are  in  pots 
 because  my  um  my  landscaping  is  very 
 tropical.  So  my  landscaping  has  um  you 
 know  my  irrigation  comes  on  three  times 
 a  week  and  that's  just  far  too  much  for 
 bugan  villas.  I  could  not  resist  not 
 having  a  couple  standard  trees  in  my 
 landscape.  So,  I  put  them  in  pots  um  and 
 knowing  that  I  kind  of  followed  those 
 guidelines  uh  that  that  I  could  keep 
 them  blooming.  Now,  these  guys  have  been 
 in  the  in  these  pots  for  a  couple  years 
 and  they're  doing  super  super  well.  I 
 kind  of  keep  them  at  the  prop  the 
 perfect  size  for  myself,  but  um  you 
 know,  I  just  kind  of  want  them  tipping 
 out  just  over  top  of  my  Kousia  hedge 
 there  so  I  can  see  them  as  I'm  coming  up 
 the  road.  Um,  but  they  get  um  they  get 
 all  morning  sun  up  until  about  six 
 o'clock  in  the  evening.  So,  they  really 
 get  a  good  dose  of  sun.  Now,  I've  got 
 one  more  bug  and  in  a  pot  over  there  by 
 my  um  my  seeding  section  and  it's  orange 
 um  and  pink  and  it's  absolutely 
 stunning,  but  it  does  not  bloom  nearly 
 as  much.  So,  I've  got,  you  know,  some 
 blooms  along  the  tips,  but  nowhere 
 nowhere  like  these  guys  are.  So,  um  the 
 first  things  first,  don't  overwater  your 
 Bugenville.  Make  sure  they're  in  the 
 sun.  Um,  if  they're  if  you  have  too  much 
 water  going  on  within  your  landscaping, 
 possibly  put  them  in  pots  like  I  have 
 them  here,  cuz  that  way  you  get  the 
 benefit  of  them  without  oversaturating 
 them.  If  they  are  going  to  be  in  the 
 garden,  make  sure  that  they're  in  an 
 area  where  your  sprinkler  system  is  not 
 hitting.  So  maybe  put  them  in  one 
 specific  cluster  within  the  landscape 
 and  then  have  your  irrigation  um  heads 
 kind  of  go  the  different  direction  that 
 you  need  them  to  go  and  kind  of  you  know 
 miss  or  or  just  do  a  soft  cast  over  top 
 of  those  irrigate  or  those  plants.  So 
 when  I  do  water  my  buganvillia  it's 
 about  every  two  weeks  um  10  days  to  two 
 weeks  if  it  hasn't  rained  I'll  come  out 
 and  I'll  give  them  a  just  a  deluge  of 
 water.  So,  I  will  take  the  hose  and  I 
 will  let  it  run  for  a  few  minutes  in 
 each  pot  and  let  that  water  just  kind  of 
 really  go  through  the  root  system  all 
 the  way  down.  I  have  good  I  have  a  big 
 drainage  hole  at  the  bottom  and  it 
 wasn't  quite  enough  for  the  amount  of 
 rain  that  we  get  here  in  Vero  Beach.  Um, 
 so  I  incorporated  or  incorporated  I 
 words  what  are  they?  So,  I  put  in  two 
 drainage  holes  in  the  backside  of  my 
 pots  as  well.  So,  that  way  I  know  that 
 my  plants  are  not  going to  get  root  rot. 
 They're  going  to  become  really  nice 
 strong  standard  trees.  So,  um,  drainage 
 is  a  big  one.  So,  and  the  the  the  next 
 tip  is  pretty  much  um  it's  a 
 misconception  about  bugan  villas  to  kind 
 of  forget  about  them.  That  makes  the 
 best  buganillaa.  Not  the  case.  So, 
 bugenville  really  really really  love  to 
 be  trimmed.  They  love  a  little  bit  of 
 haircut,  a  little  bit  of  pruning.  So, 
 um,  you  want  to  kind  of  take  right  on 
 these  edges  like  you  see  here,  you  just 
 kind  of  want  to  take  those  tips  off  and 
 you  kind  of  want  to  do  that  all  the  way 
 around  the  bug  and  villia  tree.  Just 
 kind  of  nip  all  of  the  outside  tips. 
 maybe  three  or  four  inches  of  those  tips 
 um  all  the  way  around  it.  And  it  does 
 two  things.  It  keeps  the  buganvea  nice 
 and  compact  and  dense  and  thick  and  and 
 solid  and  allows  the  blooms  to  kind  of 
 be  all  the  way  all  the  way  through.  I 
 mean,  look  how  compact  she  is.  And  you 
 know,  she  looks  like  she's  wearing  some 
 Spanx.  I  mean,  she  looks  fantastic, 
 doesn't  she?  So,  um  it  keeps  them  nice 
 and  thick  and  dense  and  blooming  all  the 
 way  around.  And  then  it  also  everywhere 
 that  you  bloom  everywhere  that  you  cut 
 um  you're  going  to  get  two  stems  off  of 
 that  cutting.  Since  bugenville  only 
 bloom  on  new  growth,  you're  really 
 doubling  your  money  because  those  two 
 stems  are  now  going  to  provide  you  two 
 two  blooms.  So  for  those  of  you  who  are 
 like  don't  want  to  turn  my  big  blooming 
 because  it's  absolutely  so  stunning. 
 You're  gonna  you're  going  to  double  your 
 money  with  it  because  you're  gonna 
 you're  gonna  you're  going  to  come  out 
 and  they're  going  to  be  like,  you  know, 
 just  big  and  beautiful  and  gorgeous.  And 
 then  you're  gonna,  you  know,  everybody 
 like,  "Thank  you  for  those  dead  ends 
 trimmed.  I  look  fabulous."  So,  um, 
 they're  they're  definitely  worth.  So, 
 when  you  come  out,  do  that  about  every 
 two  months  in  the  summer.  Just  kind  of 
 nip  just  those  outside  edges  and  they  it 
 they'll  they'll  reward  you  for  it.  And 
 so,  at  the  same  time  that  I  do  that,  my 
 final  tip  is  hit  it  with  some 
 fertilizer.  So,  I  um  because  they're  in 
 pots  and  I  have  a  tendency  to  overfeed 
 like  everything,  you  know,  people,  dogs, 
 cats,  plants,  everything.  I  um  use  an 
 organic  fertilizer  on  my  potted  so  I 
 don't  burn  them.  So,  I  don't  take  any 
 chance.  So,  if  I  happen  to,  you  know, 
 get  a  little  bit  too  aggressive  with  my 
 fertilizing,  you  know,  it's  pretty  safe 
 on  my  um  on  my  uh  trees  in  the  pots. 
 Now,  I  use  non-organic  on  um  the  ones 
 that  are  in  the  ground.  So,  uh  but  yeah, 
 so  I  do  that  every  two  months.  So,  my 
 pattern  is  um  every  couple  months  I  put 
 it  on  my  on  my  phone  because  I'm  so  not 
 organized.  Um  and  um  it'll  just  it'll 
 say  time  to  fertilize  your  boogies.  So, 
 I  will  come  out  and  um  hit  them  with 
 some  fertilizer  and  take  my  clippers  and 
 just  nip  all  those  outside  edges.  And 
 literally  takes  me  three  or  four 
 minutes.  And  because  you  hardly  get  any 
 thorns  on  the  outside  edges  of  of 
 growth,  it's  always  the  interior 
 grouping  that  kind  of  want  to  really 
 kill  you.  um  then  it's,  you  know,  it's  a 
 safe,  easy,  and  easy  clean  up.  So,  it's 
 definitely  definitely  worth  it.  Those  of 
 you  guys  who  have  seen  those  bugan 
 videos  that  have  kind  of  grown  crazy  and 
 all  over  the  place,  and  you  go  in  to 
 trim  them,  they've  created  thorns  that 
 are  like  like  these,  you  know,  this  size 
 and  it's  like,  oh,  oh  my  god,  you  look 
 like  you  have  to  go  to  the  ER  after 
 trimming.  Yeah,  you  don't  want  to  let 
 your  boobas  get  that  that  wide  and  that 
 big.  So,  you  want  all  of  that  impact  and 
 all  of  that  growth  just  to  um  you  know, 
 just  to  just  to  do  what  they  do.  I  mean, 
 they're  just  fabulous,  fabulous  plants 
 in  the  garden.  So,  I  just  love  having 
 them.  And  for  those  of  you  who  are  like 
 Deborah,  don't  be  scared  to  incorporate 
 bugabyas  in  your  landscaping  because 
 they  they  they  offer  such  an  impact  um 
 for  our  warm  climate.  They  give  us  a  lot 
 of  color,  a  lot  of  a  lot  of  style  in  the 
 garden.  So,  um,  and  then,  uh,  for  those 
 of  you  who  might  be  new  to  Bugganas,  um, 
 just  a  a  fun  fact,  these  little  leaves 
 that  are  that  are  drawing  all  of  that 
 color  are  actually  called  bracks.  The 
 blooms  themselves  are  these  little  white 
 flowers.  So,  all  these  leaves  that  the 
 besides  being  beautiful,  they're  kind  of 
 like  neon  signs  to  the  pollinators 
 saying,  "Hey,  look  at  me."  Um,  and  then 
 they  draw  them  in  and  then  they  see  that 
 these  are  the  actual  buds  in  the  inside 
 the  buganas,  the  blooms  that  are  there. 
 I  mean,  just  isn't  mother  nature 
 amazing?  So,  the  don't  sleep  on  the  bug 
 and  billas,  you  guys?  Just  uh  you  know, 
 just  give  a  man  a  little  extra  love.  So, 
 all right.  So,  I  hope  this  video  was 
 helpful.  If  you  guys  have  any  other 
 questions,  um  definitely  leave  in  the 
 comments  down  below.  If  you  made  it  to 
 the  end  of  this  video,  then  please 
 comment  true  gardener  because  you  are  a 
 true  gardener.  Thank  you  guys  for  this 
 great  gardening  community  and  I  hope 
 this  video  was  helpful.  Have  a  great 
 weekend.  See  you  later.