 Landscaping  can  make  your  yard  feel  like 
 an  oasis  or  it  can  quietly  drain  your 
 time  and  even  more  importantly  your 
 wallet  if  you  make  the  wrong  choices. 
 Today  I  am  breaking  down  some  common 
 landscaping  mistakes  that  might  seem 
 small,  but  they  end  up  costing  you 
 thousands. 
 Most  people  completely  overlook  this 
 when  planting  trees,  but  done  right,  it 
 can  actually  lower  your  bills  and  boost 
 your  home  values.  done  wrong, 
 well,  it'll  cost  you  way  more  than  just 
 a  dead  tree.  Mature  trees  in  a  well 
 landscaped  yard  increase  home  values  by 
 7  to  19%  and  that's  by  records  of  home 
 sales.  They  also  remove  pollutants  and 
 sequester  carbon.  If  you  plant  the  right 
 tree  in  the  right  place  that  screens 
 western  and  southern  sun,  they  save  $6 
 to  $270 
 per  tree  in  energy  bills.  It's  easy  to 
 remind  ourselves  how  valuable  trees  are 
 when  you  just  go  try  to  buy  one  at  the 
 nursery  and  that  growth  makes  them  more 
 and  more  expensive.  So,  what  this 
 reflects  is  as  trees  grow,  they  become 
 more  valuable.  So  if  you're  not  caring 
 for  the  trees  properly,  then  you're 
 risking  losing  value.  And  one  of  the 
 worst  abuses  I  see  of  trees  is  pruning. 
 What  we're  trying  to  do  with  proper 
 pruning,  which  is  mostly  thinning,  is 
 encouraging  these  trees  to  get  big  and 
 mature  because  that's  when  they  maximize 
 their  ability  to  do  everything  they  can 
 do  for  us.  Improper  pruning  where  we're 
 doing  heading  back  cuts  is  terrible  for 
 trees  and  violates  this  rule  of  trying 
 to  get  them  as  big  as  possible  and  as 
 properly  shaped  as  possible  so  they  can 
 maximize  their  value.  And  the  other 
 thing  is  we're  never  going  to  get  there 
 if  we  don't  stake  them  properly.  And 
 when  we  stake  them  properly,  they  can 
 stand  on  their  own  very  very  quickly 
 just  after  a  year  or  two  because  we're 
 doing  staking  that  allows  them  to  move 
 sometimes  with  only  two  stakes.  We  have 
 this  photo  here  showing  a  tree  that  fell 
 over  even  with  two  stakes.  And  now  with 
 three  stakes,  we  have  it  extremely 
 stable  and  still  able  to  move  because  we 
 use  flexible  tree  ties  in  a  figure 
 eight.  This  next  one  is  one  of  those 
 things  you  don't  notice  until  it's  too 
 late.  And  by  then,  fixing  it  isn't  cheap 
 or  easy.  There's  two  things  you  really 
 need  to  focus  on.  A  lot  of  the  water 
 comes  off  your  roof.  Some  people  have 
 gutters.  Then  you  focus  on  where  those 
 downspouts  are  and  you  capture  that 
 water  and  deliver  it  to  a  logical  place. 
 When  a  lot  of  the  projects  we  do,  the 
 logical  place  is  at  the  gutter  or  you 
 can  dump  it  out  close  to  the  street,  but 
 you  want  to  get  it  away  from  your  house. 
 The  other  thing  is  simple  gravity 
 drainage.  So  if  you  look  around  your 
 house,  we  want  to  try  to  figure  out 
 where  most  of  the  water  is  collecting 
 and  then  we  want  to  figure  out  how  it 
 can  just  with  gravity  flow  out  to  where 
 you  want  it  to  flow  to.  If  you're  trying 
 to  get  water  away  either  through 
 downspouts  or  just  by  [music]  drain 
 inlets,  you  want  to  use  solid  pipe.  Some 
 people  use  pipe  with  holes  in  it  with 
 the  idea  that  the  water  will  seep  into 
 the  soil  as  it  goes.  The  problem  with 
 that  is  if  you  have  plants  nearby,  the 
 roots  go  into  those  holes  and  end  up 
 plugging  up  the  drainage  pipes.  So 
 drainage  is  important  from  many 
 standpoints  in  the  landscape.  Poor 
 drainage  makes  plants  fail.  [music]  And 
 we've  already  established  the  value  of 
 trees.  Your  trees  aren't  going  to  grow 
 if  they're  constantly  have  saturated 
 roots.  And  probably  even  more  expensive 
 from  a  standpoint  of  losing  thousands  of 
 dollars  is  the  effect  on  your  house 
 where  you  get  mold  issues  and  you  get 
 degradation  issues  where  things  start  to 
 rot.  So,  what  we're  trying  to  do  is  keep 
 that  house  dry  all  the  way  around. 
 That's  how  you  can  save  thousands  of 
 dollars  in  maintenance  down  the  road. 
 Hey,  look  who's  here. 
 Mr.  Chip,  you  ready?  Go  ahead  and  hit 
 the  subscribe  [music]  button  because  if 
 your  basement  floods  next  week  and  you 
 didn't,  it's  on  you.  Do  you  ever  walk 
 through  [music]  the  nursery,  see  a 
 beautiful  plant,  and  think,  "Yeah, 
 that'll  look  beautiful  in  my  yard." 
 While  this  might  seem  harmless,  this 
 could  be  the  difference  between  a 
 thriving  yard  and  a  very  costly 
 headache.  heaving  concrete,  cracked 
 walls,  plumbing  systems.  Those  are  all 
 things  that  are  tremendously  expensive 
 to  repair.  That's  where  your  thousands 
 of  dollars  will  go  if  you  don't  take 
 care  in  selecting  things  that  are 
 appropriately  sized  for  your  lot.  We've 
 run  across  many  recently  where  insurance 
 companies  are  getting  tighter  on 
 branches  touching  the  roof.  Same  thing 
 with  plants  that  grow  all  over  the 
 house.  they  can  ruin  the  integrity  of 
 the  structure.  So,  what  we're  trying  to 
 do  is  encourage  you  to  select 
 appropriate  sized  trees  that  won't  cause 
 root  damage.  And  if  you  think  they  might 
 cause  root  damage,  you  can  use  things 
 like  root  barriers  to  make  sure  they 
 don't.  So,  in  addition  to  trees, 
 planting  big  shrubs  too  close  to  your 
 house  can  create  some  of  the  same 
 problems.  I  like  to  keep  big  shrubs  out 
 away  from  the  house  where  we  don't  have 
 this  example  of  lots  of  foundation 
 planting  right  up  next  to  the  house.  It 
 makes  the  house  difficult  to  maintain 
 and  also  causes  damage  to  the  house. 
 [music]  There's  one  thing  worse  than 
 pests  in  your  yard  and  that's  how  most 
 people  try  to  kill  them.  When  people 
 treat  for  root  not  nematodeses  with 
 chemicals,  you  start  this  process  of 
 damaging  life  in  your  soil  and  it  can 
 become  severely  damaged.  In  fact,  after 
 using  typical  products  to  kill  root  not 
 neatodes,  the  soil  is  pretty  much 
 lifeless  and  not  a  good  place  to  garden. 
 We  established  the  value  of  trees  in  my 
 prior  point.  Every  bit  as  valuable  as 
 trees  are  is  soil.  It's  the  soil  that's 
 at  the  heart  of  being  able  to  grow 
 things  beautifully  without  using  a  lot 
 of  poison.  So,  the  best  way  to  eradicate 
 pests  and  disease  and  not  waste 
 thousands  of  dollars  is  to  focus  on 
 beneficial  complex  soil  life  and  to 
 build  life.  You  can  do  things  like 
 compost  and  compost  tea  and  our  products 
 like  maximize,  optimize,  nourish  bioil. 
 That's  definitely  the  case  with  root  not 
 neatodes.  The  best  way  is  to  build  soil 
 life  where  we  have  beneficial 
 nematodeses.  Envision  that  instead  of 
 building  soil,  you're  damaging  soil. 
 Then  you're  just  having  to  make  more  and 
 more  investments  into  pests  and 
 chemicals,  which  could  damage  your 
 health.  It  could  damage  your  yard's 
 ability  to  produce  properly.  And  those 
 poison  products  that  are  frequently  used 
 don't  even  cure  the  problem.  Sometimes 
 the  problem  comes  right  back.  There's 
 easily  thousands  of  dollars  in  value 
 there.  DIY  projects  [music]  can  be  a 
 great  way  to  save  money  until  you  have 
 to  pay  two  or  three  times  as  much  to  fix 
 what  went  wrong.  Here  are  a  few  DIY 
 projects  that  can  get  very  costly  when 
 done  improperly.  So,  one  of  the  things 
 that  I  talk  about  a  lot  is  how 
 irrigation  systems  need  to  have  some 
 professional  intervention  at  some  point 
 in  order  in  order  to  make  sure  they're 
 good.  If  you  hire  a  licensed  contractor, 
 it's  it  really  is  going  to  vary,  but 
 probably  somewhere  in  the  $2  to  $3  a 
 square  foot  range.  So,  if  you  have  say 
 1,500  square  ft  front  yard,  you  know, 
 you're  around  $5,000.  It's  an  expensive 
 job  with  expensive  materials  and  if  you 
 don't  do  it  properly  and  have  to  redo 
 it,  [music]  there's  significant  costs  to 
 that.  So,  in  all  types  of  construction, 
 obviously,  there's  things  that  go  into 
 it  that  I  would  think  you  would  look 
 into  first.  A  wall  like  is  around  me, 
 you  know,  requires  a  footing,  a  proper 
 footing.  Making  yourself  aware  of  proper 
 construction  techniques  in  terms  of 
 footings  is  important  to  have  a  wall 
 that's  longlasting  and  permanent  and 
 doesn't  start  cracking,  you  know,  right 
 after  you  install  it.  The  same  with  all 
 types  of  paving.  The  paving  that  we're 
 standing  on  needs  to  have  the  proper 
 joints  so  that  you  don't  have  excessive 
 cracking,  the  proper  finish,  so  people 
 aren't  slipping  on  it.  And  all  of  those 
 things  take  some  experience.  Landscapes 
 should  add  value  and  not  drain  your 
 wallet.  So,  if  you're  fired  up  to 
 improve  your  landscape  and  garden,  but 
 your  budget  is  tight,  don't  worry.  We 
 just  made  a  video,  Jip  and  I,  that  shows 
 how  our  friend  Steve  transformed  his 
 landscape  using  nothing  but  creativity, 
 [music] 
 resourcefulness, 
 hard  work,  and  a  lot  of  salvaged 
 material.  Go  check  it  out.

---

 You  don't  have  to  break  the  bank  to  make 
 your  garden  beautiful.  Whether  you  have 
 a  barren  patch  of  dirt,  an  overgrown 
 jungle,  or  a  garden  that  needs  just  a 
 little  bit  of  love,  I'll  show  you  how  to 
 transform  it  without  spending  a  single 
 cent.  And  if  you  stick  around  to  the 
 end,  Chip  and  I  will  show  you  my 
 friend's  0  garden  makeover  that  used 
 some  of  these  exact  tips.  Let's  start 
 with  the  most  important  Z  move  that 
 changes  everything.  So,  if  it's  just 
 dirt,  you  want  it  to  be  dirt  only  where 
 dirt's  supposed  to  be.  You  would  do  some 
 cleaning  and  you  could  do  some  planting 
 of  lawn  if  you  have  kids  or  pets  and  you 
 want  a  lawn  that  you're  going  to  use.  Or 
 you  could  plant  simple  ground  cover  or 
 shrubs.  But  if  it's  only  dirt,  think 
 about  a  simple  planting  of  some  type  and 
 cleanliness.  That's  going  to  do  a  major 
 transformation.  It's  true  to  plant  a 
 lawn,  you  would  need  some  seeds,  but 
 seeds  are  very  inexpensive  and  that  can 
 be  done  without  a  lot  of  cost.  Or  you 
 can  get  cutings  of  lawn  or  plugs  of  lawn 
 from  neighbors  and  friends  that  have  a 
 lawn  and  you  can  get  those  for  free  and 
 start  that  without  any  cost  at  all.  Many 
 plants  for  their  health  need  to  be 
 divided.  And  when  those  divisions  occur, 
 you  can  take  plants  from  neighbors  or 
 accept  plants  from  neighbors  and  use 
 them  in  your  own  yard.  And  that  is  truly 
 salvaged  plants.  Here's  a  list  of  plants 
 that  can  be  divided.  Ask  neighbors  for 
 cutings.  And  many  times  they  have  to  do 
 some  gardening  that  renders  some  plants 
 available  that  they  would  just  throw 
 away  otherwise.  even  if  they're  not 
 throwing  them  away.  A  lot  of  times  you 
 can  take  cutings  from  plantings  that 
 they  have.  Here's  a  list  of  plants  that 
 are  easy  to  propagate.  Also,  there's 
 gardening  clubs  that  do  swaps  where  you 
 can  easily  get  plant  material  or  seeds. 
 If  you  made  the  mistake  of  watching  this 
 video  so  far  without  subscribing,  Chip 
 and  I  have  scientifically  proven  that 
 when  you  do  subscribe  to  the  channel, 
 your  garden  will  look  a  lot  better.  And 
 it's  free.  Maybe  your  garden  isn't 
 empty,  but  it  is  a  wild  mess.  I've  seen 
 some  of  those.  Here's  how  to  turn  chaos 
 into  cozy  without  spending  a  dime.  You 
 start  with  the  most  simple  parts,  which 
 is  mowing  and  cleaning.  Even  if  you  have 
 weeds,  don't  bother  to  pull  them.  Just 
 mow  the  whole  thing.  Little  bit  of 
 water,  keep  it  green.  Green  weeds  look 
 better  than  unmowed,  messy  weeds.  And 
 then  you  attack  the  overgrown  nature  of 
 it,  which  is  plants  that  are  threatening 
 the  stability  of  your  house  and  maybe 
 with  roots  that  are  going  under  your 
 foundation.  And  you  want  to  look  at 
 things  you  need  to  remove.  So  you'll  do 
 a  combination  of  removal,  tree  pruning, 
 shrub  pruning,  but  try  to  do  it  without 
 really  butchering  them.  If  there's  a  way 
 to  prune  them  where  you  can  still  keep 
 them  looking  like  nice  shrubs  with  a 
 nice  form,  that  would  be  your  first 
 goal.  always  consider  transplanting.  So, 
 a  lot  of  the  plants  might  be  usable,  but 
 they're  all  jumbled  up  together  in  the 
 wrong  place.  Transplanting  them  in  the 
 fall  is  good,  in  the  early  spring  is 
 [music]  good,  even  sometimes  in  the 
 winter.  The  worst  times  are  the  middle 
 of  summer  and  the  middle  of  winter  if 
 it's  brutally  cold.  And  you  can  analyze 
 everything  in  your  yard  and  do 
 divisions,  move  them  around,  plant  them 
 everywhere  you  think  they  might  thrive. 
 Sometimes  ground  cover  grows  in  a  way 
 that  you  can  just  cut  off  a  piece  and 
 restart  it.  There  are  ways  to  salvage 
 rocks,  bricks,  stones,  pavers,  [music] 
 and  we'll  see  examples  of  that  in  this 
 yard  that  we're  in.  Some  people  salvage 
 rocks  from  the  side  of  the  road  or  go  to 
 areas  that  are  doing  cleanup  and  just 
 have  piles  of  random  rocks.  Don't 
 overlook  curb  finds,  dumpsters.  Goodwill 
 has  giveaways  sometimes.  Sometimes  local 
 businesses  like  fencing  companies  put 
 out  material  that  they  dig  up.  A  whole 
 range  of  finding  material  that  the  owner 
 doesn't  want  anymore  and  figuring  out  a 
 way  to  be  resourceful.  This  [music]  is 
 the  part  where  it  gets  inspiring.  If 
 your  garden  is  looking  all  right,  but  it 
 just  needs  that  special  spark.  Let  me 
 introduce  you  to  Steve.  He  transformed 
 his  space  using  repurposed  finds  and 
 creativity,  spending  little  to  no  money. 
 Now,  I  think  you're  going  to  want  to 
 steal  some  of  these  ideas.  Let's  start 
 with  the  walk  we're  standing  on. 
 >> What  these  are  considered  is  fire 
 bricks.  And  fire  bricks  are  using,  for 
 instance,  like  kils  and  that.  And  these 
 bricks  were  going  out  to  the  dump  and 
 there  was  a  big  pile  of  them.  And  I  was 
 asked,  would  you  be  able  to  repurpose 
 these  into  something  of  value?  And  I 
 said,  "Yeah,  I  could  probably  put  this 
 in  my  front  yard  and  make  the  yellow 
 brick  road." 
 >> You  have  a  piece  of  decorative  metal 
 work  there.  And  my  understanding  is 
 that's  a  salvaged  item. 
 >> It  is  salvage.  I  did  pay  very  little  for 
 it  and  was  something  that  was  actually 
 in  a  pile  of  of  metal  that  was  in  a 
 salvage  yard.  I  just  used  it  for 
 decorative  purposes 
 >> for  the  backdrop  for  my  dissect  maple 
 that  I  put  in  a  pot.  the  pot  was  already 
 yours  or  how  did  you  get 
 >> I  actually  purchased  that  pot  and  the 
 pot  was  sitting  in  the  back  of  um  a 
 nursery.  It  had  a  big  crack  in  it. 
 >> So,  I  repaired  it  and  brought  it  home 
 and  paid  very  little  for  it  because  um 
 it  was  damaged. 
 >> I'm  starting  to  notice  a  theme  here. 
 >> Yes,  crack  pots.  [laughter] 
 >> Crack  pots.  You'll  look  in  different 
 areas  in  a  nursery  and  they  have  certain 
 areas  where  they  have  plants  that  look 
 like  they're  ready  to  die.  And  so  they 
 just  put  them  in  a  discount  place  and 
 you  can  get  them  from  for  a  fraction  of 
 the  cost 
 >> or  annuals  they're  ready  to  throw  away. 
 >> Yeah,  absolutely.  And  there  was 
 something  even  today  I  saw  that  you  can 
 come  in.  Even  Home  Depot  has  lumber 
 scraps  they  will  put  in  a  pile.  If  you 
 get  there  early  in  the  morning  at  6,  you 
 can  get  that  for  almost  free. 
 [music]  This  particular  fence  here  that 
 actually  separates  us  from  the  neighbors 
 was  salvaged  from  a  neighbor  around  the 
 corner  and  he  was  ready  to  throw  it  out 
 because  it  was  a  banister  for  their 
 second  story  and  decided  it  wasn't  safe. 
 So  I  asked  if  I  could  have  it  and  he 
 gave  it  to  me  and  I  installed  it  and 
 that  began  the  whole  process  of  wanting 
 my  fence  with  circles. 
 >> And  since  we're  on  that  topic,  how  did 
 you  salvage  this?  We  went  to  a  place 
 that  actually  fabricate  different  types 
 of  metals  and  they  were  throwing  this 
 out.  It  was  scrap  and  just  had  it  framed 
 out  and  then  welded  together.  A  friend 
 of  mine  does  welding. 
 >> Oh. 
 >> And  so  we  put  it  all  in  concrete  and  it 
 and  it's  as  solid  as  can  be. 
 >> Yeah. 
 >> And  and  it  people  always  know  where  we 
 live  now  cuz  I  always  tell  them  I  live 
 in  the  house  with  the  circles. 
 Texture  is  very  important  to  me  in 
 landscaping.  So  [music]  when  I  saw  this, 
 I  thought  not  only  does  it  have  texture, 
 but  has  color.  And  a  friend  of  mine  had 
 some  he  was  going  to  do  some  rock  work 
 and  he  didn't  care  for  it.  And  so  I  just 
 simply  said,  "Can  I  have  this  so  I 
 brought  it  home  in  my  neighbor's  pickup 
 that  I  borrowed  that  I  didn't  have  to 
 pay  for." 
 >> Even  the  pickup  was  salvaged. 
 >> Even  the  pickup.  And  there's  two 
 purposes  for  the  rock.  Not  only  did  I 
 get  it  salvaged  and  repurposed,  but  it 
 keeps  the  dogs  from  walking  around  my 
 lamps,  my  path  lighting  all  the  way 
 through.  Otherwise,  they'd  all  be  taken 
 down  by  now  because  dogs  don't  walk  in 
 rock.  [music] 
 This  was  given  to  us  by  my  son  and 
 daughter-in-law  that  live  up  in  the  Bay 
 Area.  And  they  were  going  to  toss  this 
 out. 
 >> And  this  keeps,  believe  it  or  not,  all 
 animals  out  of  my  little  flower  bed 
 here. 
 >> And  you  have  it  used  throughout  the 
 garden. 
 >> And  I  have  it  in  the  same  areas  there  to 
 keep  animals  from  walking  through  my 
 garden. 
 >> And  then  this  you  also  got  for  free.  And 
 you  kind  of  put  it  all  together.  They 
 don't  necessarily  go  together,  but  they 
 look  like  they  go  together. 
 >> I  started  at  that  end  by  the  driveway 
 and  I  worked  this  way.  It  took  me  6 
 months  to  do  this  whole  project.  And  the 
 reason  why  it  took  6  months  is  because 
 number  one,  I'm  retired. 
 >> Yeah. 
 >> And  I  did  it  all  myself.  I  didn't  have 
 any  help.  And  I  used  whatever  pieces 
 that  I  was  able  to  salvage  to  put  it 
 together.  So  there  is  no  design.  And  so 
 when  I  got  to  here,  this  strip  here 
 looks  completely  different 
 >> than  anywhere  else  because  I  didn't  have 
 enough  to  finish. 
 >> And  what  did  you  lay  it  on  top  of? 
 >> I  used  decomposed  granite. 
 >> Was  the  decomposed  granite  salvaged? 
 >> Yes. 
 >> Yeah.  Very  good. 
 >> Here's  one  thing  I  did  pay  for  the  659. 
 My  two  grandsons  painted  that  on  there 
 and  I  gave  them  I  even  gave  him  a  tip 
 because  it  did  such  a  good  job. 
 And  this  is  where  I  put  most  of  my 
 annuals  and  perennials  here  to  walk  on 
 either  side  of  the  main  walk  going  up 
 into  the  porch. 
 >> And  when  you  plant  your  annuals  and 
 perennials  that  are  going  to  look 
 spectacular  in  another  month  or  so, 
 >> uh  you  use  an  interesting  product  to 
 plant  them  in. 
 >> Actually,  I  use  table  scraps.  What  I  do 
 is  I  throw  my  little  bucket  that  I  have 
 in  the  in  the  house  of  all  my  table 
 scraps.  I  bring  it  out  here.  I  throw  it 
 in  there.  Then  I  turn  it  50  times,  50 
 revolutions.  The  idea  is  to  always  make 
 sure  there's  air  going  into  it.  And  that 
 keeps  it  uh  break  it.  It  [music]  speeds 
 up  the  process  of  decomposition. 
 >> At  first,  it  took  me  a  long  time  to 
 figure  out  how  much  grass  clippings, 
 leaves,  and  then  uh  table  scraps.  That's 
 basically  my  recipe. 
 >> I  see.  And  how  long  does  it  take  you  to 
 make  finished  compost? 
 >> I  I'd  say  at least  6  months, 
 >> really.  And  I  can't  put  a  whole  lot  more 
 in  that  because  if  I  filled  that  up,  I 
 couldn't  turn  it. 
 >> So,  we're  gonna  have  a  contest.  I'm 
 gonna  give  you  some  John  and  Bob's 
 equivalent  of  compost  and  then  we're 
 going  to  see  which  works  better,  the 
 Steve  compost  or  the  John  and  Bob's. 
 >> Well,  I  may  have  my  own  show. 
 >> So,  we'll  see  what  happens.  [laughter] 
 [music] 
 >> My  wife  and  I  love  birds,  so  we  thought 
 the  best  thing  to  do  was  to  bring  in  a 
 water  feature.  And  this  water  feature  is 
 completely  free  without  with  the 
 exception  of  the  pump  that's  underneath. 
 And  what  this  is  is  salvaged  tractor 
 disc.  And  then  below  that  is  a  stand 
 pipe,  irrigation  stand  pipe.  And  inside 
 that's  a  pump.  It  pumps  the  water  up, 
 drops  back  down  in  there.  And  I  have 
 water  feeding  into  it  constantly  to  keep 
 it  from  evaporation.  And  we  get  all 
 kinds  of  birds  here.  I  have  videos  of 
 hummingbirds  taking  baths,  robins, 
 [music] 
 sparrows,  a  lot  of  finches.  this  time  of 
 year  they  get  up  into  the  tree  and  it's 
 a  wonderful  feature.  I  would  suggest 
 people  look  for  scrap  to  make  their 
 their  um  their  bird  bath  because  bird 
 baths  are  very  expensive. 
 >> As  you've  seen,  Steve  did  spend  a  little 
 bit  of  money  here  and  there  over  time  to 
 get  his  garden  to  look  like  this.  And  if 
 you  have  a  few  dollars  to  spare  as  well 
 and  [music]  want  to  speed  up  the 
 process,  you  can  watch  this  video  of 
 ours  to  get  a  few  tips  on  landscaping  on 
 a  budget.

---

 Stop  right  there.  Before  you  spend 
 another  [music]  penny  on  your  garden,  I 
 need  you  to  watch  this  video.  There  is  a 
 lot  of  stuff  out  there  that's  draining 
 your  wallet  and  not  helping  your 
 landscape  look  any  better  at  all.  So, 
 today  I  will  share  with  you  the  biggest 
 garden  [music]  gimmicks  and  landscape 
 letdowns.  You'd  be  surprised  how  many  of 
 these  are  popular.  This  first  one 
 [music]  is  something  that's  been  popular 
 with  lawns  for  decades,  and  I  see  it 
 encouraged  on  YouTube  all  the  time,  but 
 the  question  is,  is  it  actually 
 benefiting  your  lawn  or  just  making  it 
 look  like  it's  been  attacked  by  gophers, 
 irration,  and  deatching?  Mainly,  you 
 need  to  understand  when  you  need  each 
 one,  and  when  each  one  would  benefit  you 
 so  you  don't  spend  money  needlessly. 
 Aation  would  be  effective  if  you  have 
 really  hard  compacted  turf  and  you  want 
 to  try  to  soften  it.  If  you  have  a  lawn 
 that  you  use  a  lot,  it's  going  to  get 
 compacted  just  from  use.  Very  logical, 
 especially  if  it  tends  to  be  a  heavy 
 soil  that  you  would  benefit  tremendously 
 from  core  ariation.  Deatching  is  done 
 when  you  have  a  buildup  of  thatch. 
 Thatch  builds  up  when  you  use  mostly 
 chemical  fertilizer  and  you  don't  have  a 
 lot  of  life  in  your  soil.  So  you're  kind 
 of  feeding  the  soil  directly  with 
 nutrients  that  it  likes  like  nitrogen 
 and  phosphorus  and  potassium  and  you  end 
 up  with  all  this  dead  and  dying  grass 
 material  and  it  makes  it  difficult  for 
 the  exchange  of  air  and  water.  A  lot  of 
 people  don't  have  a  thatch  buildup  and 
 they  just  know,  oh  every  year  I  should 
 deatch.  Well,  that's  just  a  waste  of 
 money.  Given  proper  inputs  in  your  lawn, 
 building  this  lively  soil  full  of 
 beneficial  microbiology,  we  could 
 [music]  eliminate  both  coreation  and 
 deatching.  Healthy  soil  arrates  itself 
 through  microbiology  and  all  of  the 
 result  of  microbiology  such  as 
 earthworms.  And  all  of  that  activity  in 
 the  soil  eats  the  thatch.  Adding  iron 
 might  sound  like  you're  giving  your  lawn 
 a  mineral  boost,  but  it's  often  a  waste 
 of  money  because  you're  addressing  the 
 wrong  problem.  Most  soil  already  has  a 
 lot  of  minerals  in  it  and  usually  a  lot 
 of  iron.  What  you  need  to  focus  on  is 
 how  do  you  get  the  plant  to  uptake  iron? 
 Rather  than  adding  iron,  we  really  want 
 to  add  beneficial  microbiology.  The  way 
 it  works  is  bacteria  and  fungi  eat 
 organic  matter.  When  they  eat,  they 
 break  nutrients  into  tiny  usable  pieces. 
 Then  prozzole  and  nematodes  eat  the 
 bacteria  and  the  fungi.  And  when  they 
 poop,  they  release  nutrients  in  exactly 
 the  form  that  plants  can  absorb.  And  to 
 build  life,  you  can  do  things  like 
 compost  and  compost  tea  and  our  products 
 like  maximize,  optimize,  nourish  bio. 
 Next  up  is  a  thing  I've  seen  in  many 
 landscapes,  but  many  people  that  have  it 
 installed  want  to  get  rid  of  it.  Plastic 
 edging.  At  first  blush,  and  on  paper, 
 it's  great.  It's  cheap,  and  it  seems  to 
 do  the  job,  but  it  does  many  things 
 poorly.  Let  me  explain.  Hot  weather 
 makes  it  contract  and  expand  in  ways 
 that  don't  allow  it  to  stay  in  place.  It 
 doesn't  like  cold  weather  either. 
 Warming  and  cooling  in  general  makes  the 
 plastic  edging  not  hold  its  shape  and 
 its  form  and  its  grade  properly.  [music] 
 It's  not  durable  in  terms  of  being  hit. 
 Edging  you'll  have  to  assume  is  going  to 
 get  hit  with  a  blade  or  a  weed  eater  or 
 something  because  it's  edging.  So  you 
 add  it  all  up  and  you've  got  a  cheap 
 material  that  performs  cheaply  and  not 
 effectively.  So  instead,  you  can  use 
 some  more  durable  form  of  permanent 
 edging.  One  that  we  use  a  lot  of  is  a 
 brand  called  Permllock.  And  they  make 
 different  types  of  metal  edging  that  are 
 easy  to  install.  You  might  save  money  up 
 front,  but  in  the  end,  you'll  need  to 
 replace  it  if  you  want  it  to  look  good 
 and  you  want  it  to  function  properly. 
 And  so  in  replacing  it,  you'll  spend 
 quite  a  bit  more  money.  This  one  has 
 been  sold  as  a  simple  additive  to  help 
 your  plants  recover  from  transplant 
 shock,  but  it's  really  just  a  placebo 
 that  cost  you  money,  and  I'll  prove  it. 
 So,  the  original  study  was  done  way  back 
 in  the  1930s.  His  study  proved  that 
 vitamin  B1  helped  with  transplant  shock 
 and  with  allowing  plants  or  encouraging 
 plants  to  form  new  roots.  He  actually 
 recanted  that  in  1942,  saying  he  was 
 wrong.  And  since  then,  additional 
 studies  at  University  of  California  and 
 Washington  State  University  have  proven 
 that  there's  no  benefit  to  vitamin  B1. 
 [music]  And  yet,  starting  in  the  1930s 
 till  today,  we  still  have  products 
 marketing  the  benefits  of  vitamin  B1, 
 promoting  it  to  do  exactly  what  it 
 doesn't  do.  So,  you  might  as  well  not 
 buy  it  and  use  it  for  that  purpose.  Now, 
 what  does  help  with  transplant  shock  and 
 forming  new  roots  is  my  favorite  topic, 
 [music]  healthy  soil  and  also  proper 
 watering.  Proper  watering  is  probably 
 the  most  important  part  of  transplanting 
 plants.  In  the  first  day  or  two,  you 
 probably  need  to  make  sure  they're  a 
 little  bit  overwatered.  Now,  you  need  to 
 quickly  transition  into  proper  watering, 
 and  you  don't  want  a  saturated  soil.  But 
 in  the  beginning,  lots  of  water  is  very 
 helpful  for  transplant  shock  and 
 encouraging  new  rooting.  The  next  one  on 
 my  list  [music]  makes  me  very 
 disappointed  when  I  see  people  use  it. 
 It's  marketed  as  a  way  to  help  your 
 trees  heal  after  pruning,  but  in 
 reality,  it  slows  recovery  and  causes 
 them  to  be  more  likely  to  be  diseased. 
 It's  kind  of  similar,  eerily  similar  to 
 the  B1  story.  This  has  been  known  for  a 
 long  time  and  yet  it  persists  that  you 
 can  go  into  hardware  stores  and  garden 
 centers  and  buy  special  paint  or  black 
 pitch  or  tar.  And  the  idea  is  I  want  to 
 protect  those  cuts  and  that's  just 
 completely  wrong  and  completely 
 unproductive  and  completely  problematic. 
 What  we  want  to  do  is  make  really  nice 
 smooth  cuts  in  exactly  the  right  places. 
 And  those  smooth  cuts  exposed  to  air  and 
 everyday  weather  peel  over  the  best 
 without  any  paint.  And  by  using  those 
 products,  they  tend  to  develop  cracks  in 
 them,  which  are  spaces  for  insects  to 
 nest.  And  so  we  end  up  with  these 
 environments  that  actually  encourage 
 pests  and  disease.  And  that's  the 
 opposite  of  what  we  want  to  be  doing 
 when  we're  pruning.  A  couple  things  to 
 consider  in  order  to  get  a  clean  cut, 
 use  good  pruning  tools.  But  also,  when 
 you  don't  get  a  good  cut,  usually  is 
 when  you  have  a  lot  of  weight  on  the 
 branch.  So,  a  real  common  technique  is 
 you  make  a  preliminary  cut  on  whatever 
 branch  you're  using  that's  a  foot  or  two 
 or  3  feet  away  from  where  you  want  your 
 final  cut  to  be.  And  by  making  that 
 preliminary  cut,  you  remove  all  the 
 weight  from  that  branch.  And  now  it's 
 really  simple  to  make  your  final  cut 
 exactly  where  you  want  it.  If  you've 
 ever  sealed  a  pruning  cut  with  black 
 tar,  don't  worry,  [music]  Chip  and  I 
 don't  judge.  Just  hit  the  subscribe 
 button  now  so  we  can  heal  from  bad 
 gardening  advice  together.  Now,  imagine 
 moving  into  a  new  home  and  the  garden 
 looks  like  it  could  use  a  fresh,  new, 
 green,  lush  lawn.  There  are  multiple 
 ways  to  get  that  done,  but  in  many 
 cases,  the  most  expensive  way  isn't 
 really  necessary.  Here's  why.  I'm  not 
 opposed  to  saw.  It's  a  great  product, 
 and  in  the  middle  of  the  winter  or  many 
 times  in  the  middle  of  the  summer,  it's 
 completely  appropriate  because  we  need 
 to  get  a  lawn  in  quickly  and  get  it 
 established  quickly.  But  there  are  times 
 of  the  year  where  it  really  makes  sense 
 to  do  some  alternative  to  sod  because 
 the  savings  is  so  dramatic.  There's  a 
 big  difference  between  just  the  cost  of 
 sod  and  the  cost  of  seed.  And  what  is 
 really  powerful  is  if  you  do  it  properly 
 and  you  do  it  at  the  right  time  of  the 
 year,  you  can  produce  a  sodlike  result 
 in  a  pretty  short  amount  of  time.  I'd 
 say  four  to  6  weeks.  There  are  some 
 lawns  that  don't  have  viable  seed  and  so 
 you  you  look  at  the  next  best  way  to 
 plant  them.  Either  you  could  buy  saw  and 
 cut  it  up  and  use  plugs  or  you  can  buy 
 stolins  in  some  case  depending  on  the 
 type  of  the  lawn.  There's  different  ways 
 of  planting  that  are  still  quite  a  bit 
 less  expensive  than  sod.  I  always  admire 
 [music]  viewers  who  email  me  their  DIY 
 projects  and  the  great  results  they 
 achieve.  But  every  so  often  I  can  tell 
 when  someone  wastes  money  on  their 
 project  by  being  overly  ambitious.  Let 
 me  explain.  one  where  it  really  doesn't 
 work,  installing  your  own  irrigation 
 system.  More  and  more  irrigation  systems 
 in  order  to  perform  properly  are  pretty 
 sophisticated  installation  proposals. 
 And  so  I  frequently  discourage  people 
 from  installing  their  own  irrigation 
 system  or  for  sure  discourage  them  from 
 designing  their  own  irrigation  system. 
 Another  good  example  is  something  like 
 concrete  work.  Stamped  concrete,  colored 
 concrete,  even  gray  concrete  requires  a 
 lot  of  experience  to  do  the  proper 
 finish  and  to  have  it  drained  properly 
 and  look  properly.  If  you're 
 apprehensive  about  a  project,  it  might 
 make  a  lot  of  sense  to  spend  [music] 
 the  necessary  money  to  get  it  done 
 properly  rather  than  ending  up  having  to 
 redo  it  if  you're  just  not  properly 
 equipped  to  do  it  yourself.  You  keep 
 buying  plants  and  they  keep  dying.  But 
 until  you  fix  this,  no  amount  of 
 watering,  fertilizing,  or  even  praying 
 will  save  your  landscape.  Have  I 
 addressed  the  most  important  part  of 
 gardening  and  landscaping,  and  that's 
 the  health  of  my  soil?  We  can  improve 
 almost  any  soil  by  infusing  it  with  life 
 and  food  for  life  and  attractants  for 
 life.  That's  one  of  the  first  things  you 
 should  consider  in  order  to  be 
 successful  in  planting  plants.  So  the 
 way  you  have  microbiologically 
 complex  and  rich  soil  is  with  compost  or 
 compost  tea  or  our  products  which  are 
 concentrated  compost  [music] 
 all  directed  towards  the  same  goal  of 
 building  life  in  the  soil,  building 
 beneficial  life  in  the  soil.  Let's  talk 
 about  the  $300  gadget  that  promised 
 [music]  to  change  your  life,  but  now 
 just  collects  spiderw  webs  in  your  shed. 
 Then  let's  discuss  the  few  tools  that 
 you  actually  need  in  your  garden  to  keep 
 it  healthy  and  pretty.  Spiked  irerration 
 shoes.  Better  to  rent  a  real  core  aation 
 machine  which  does  it  properly.  If  you 
 even  need  to  airate,  we  already  talked 
 about  aation.  Moisture  meters,  which  are 
 very  popular,  are  often  inaccurate  and 
 they  break  quickly.  Dog  rocks  are  sold 
 to  stop  lawn  burn,  and  they're  usually 
 just  rocks  that  you  could  find  anywhere. 
 As  seen  on  TV,  pruners,  which  are 
 usually  low  quality  and  break  easily. 
 Magnetic  water  softeners  are  sold  for 
 irrigation  systems  and  usually  they're 
 not  effective.  This  list  could  go  on  and 
 on.  There's  actually  only  a  few  things 
 that  are  really  useful  in  landscaping 
 and  gardening.  I'm  going  to  show  you  one 
 of  my  favorites  which  I  think  nobody 
 should  do  without  except  that  most 
 people  don't  even  know  what  it  is.  So 
 basics  that  you  all  know  about  a  broom, 
 a  couple  different  kinds  of  rakes  like  a 
 [music]  a  hard  rake  and  a  leaf  rake, 
 shovels  of  different  sizes,  even  little 
 hand  shovels.  There's  no  tool  in  our  own 
 work  that  we  use  more  than  what  we  call 
 a  sharpshooter.  Kind  of  like  a 
 combination  digging  bar  and  shovel.  It 
 It's  heavy  and  so  it's  really  good  at 
 breaking  up  hard  soil  or  hard  roots  or 
 even  rock.  It's  the  best  digging  tool 
 I've  ever  encountered.  And  in 
 landscaping  and  gardening,  there's  a  lot 
 of  digging  involved.  You'll  need  both 
 hand  shears  of  good  quality  and  then  you 
 need  more  like  loppers.  If  you  have  a 
 lawn,  obviously  you  need  a  good  lawn 
 mower  and  some  way  of  edging  it,  either 
 a  weed  eater  or  an  oldfashioned  edger. 
 These  are  the  basics  of  things  that  will 
 allow  you  to  do  almost  all  your 
 gardening  work.  In  all  cases,  invest  in 
 good  quality  tools  and  they'll  last  you 
 a  long  time  and  they'll  allow  you  to  do 
 a  really  good  job.  If  this  video  just 
 saved  you  [music]  from  wasting  money  on 
 plastic  edging,  but  now  you  want  to  know 
 what  kind  of  edging  you  should  be  using, 
 then  watch  this  video  here.

---

 I  have  been  a  landscape  professional  for 
 47  years  now.  And  throughout  that  time, 
 I  have  learned  a  lot  about  making  every 
 garden  healthier,  prettier,  and  lower 
 maintenance.  So  today,  I  want  to  share 
 with  you  [music]  my  best  tips  and  tricks 
 to  help  you  design  and  maintain  a 
 [music]  garden  that  makes  you  happy  and 
 fulfilled. 
 [music] 
 The  most  important  part  of  landscape 
 design,  creating  spaces.  It  can  be 
 something  as  simple  as  a  bench  and  a  and 
 a  seating  area  or  it  can  include  a  small 
 water  feature  of  some  type  or  a  fire 
 pit.  There  can  be  an  element  of  it  that 
 you  have  a  little  extra  something  that 
 helps  you  make  that  space  special  or  it 
 can  just  be  under  a  shade  tree.  Think 
 about  your  landscape,  your  front  and 
 your  backyards  as  a  series  of  spaces  or 
 segments.  These  spaces  can  be  very 
 simple  and  inexpensive.  So,  you  don't 
 end  up  with  a  real  complicated, 
 expensive  final  product,  but  you  end  up 
 with  something  that  you  use  every  day 
 and  that's  appealing  and  attractive,  not 
 just  something  to  walk  through  to  get  to 
 your  front  door.  Your  challenge 
 shouldn't  be  to  make  the  garden  [music] 
 natural.  Your  challenge  should  be  to 
 make  the  garden  so  the  people  in  it  will 
 feel  natural.  That  is  speaking  directly 
 to  [music]  how  you  use  the  garden.  It's 
 not  like  you  should  look  at  this  garden 
 and  say  we  want  it  just  like  [music] 
 that.  This  is  specifically  designed  for 
 how  these  owners  use  [music]  the  garden. 
 And  so  you  can  look  at  for  instance  how 
 that  little  strip  of  Mexican  cobble 
 [music]  placed  in  decomposed  granite 
 adds  a  nice  feature  and  that  might  be 
 something  you  use  in  your  garden.  But 
 usually,  you're  not  going  to  want  to 
 copy  a  garden.  You're  going  to  want 
 [music]  to  think  about  how  you're  going 
 to  maintain  it,  how  you're  going  to  use 
 it,  what  your  favorite  plants  are,  and 
 develop  your  own  program  of  features 
 that  the  garden  should  have. 
 There's  actually  only  a  few  things  that 
 are  really  useful  in  landscaping  and 
 gardening.  I'm  going  to  show  you  one  of 
 my  favorites,  which  I  think  nobody 
 should  do  without,  except  that  most 
 people  don't  even  know  what  it  is.  So, 
 basics  that  you  all  know  about  a  broom, 
 a  couple  different  kinds  of  rakes,  like 
 a  a  hard  rake  and  a  leaf  rake,  shovels 
 of  different  sizes,  even  little  hand 
 shovels.  There's  no  tool  in  our  own  work 
 that  we  use  more  than  what  we  call  a 
 sharpshooter.  kind  of  like  a  combination 
 digging  bar  and  shovel.  It  It's  heavy 
 and  so  it's  really  good  at  breaking  up 
 hard  soil  or  hard  roots  or  even  rock. 
 It's  the  best  digging  tool  I've  ever 
 encountered.  And  in  landscaping  and 
 gardening,  there's  a  lot  of  digging 
 involved.  You'll  need  both  hand  shears 
 of  good  quality  and  then  you  need  more 
 like  loppers.  If  you  have  a  lawn, 
 obviously  you  need  a  good  lawn  mower  and 
 some  way  of  edging  it.  Either  a  weed 
 eater  or  an  oldfashioned  edger.  These 
 are  the  basics  of  things  that  will  allow 
 you  to  do  almost  all  your  gardening 
 work.  In  all  cases,  invest  in  good 
 quality  tools  and  they'll  last  you  a 
 long  time  and  they'll  allow  you  to  do  a 
 really  good  job. 
 Now,  what  if  I  told  you  your  garden  and 
 landscape  could  look  even  better  if  you 
 stopped  trying  to  overcontrol  it?  Let  me 
 explain. 
 >> It's  really  important  to  select  your 
 plants  properly  so  you  don't  have  to 
 constantly  be  pruning  them  and  you  don't 
 have  to  constantly  be  worried  about 
 them.  How  about  if  we  get  away  from 
 clubbing  our  plants  into  submission? 
 When  we  club  our  plants  into  submission, 
 there's  nothing  special  about  them.  They 
 just  look  like  cubes  and  circles  and 
 rectangles.  Maybe  you  should  be  thinking 
 about  what  plants  you  can  use  that  we 
 can  allow  to  attain  their  natural  form. 
 And  natural  forms  in  plants  and  trees 
 are  way  more  attractive  than  plants  and 
 trees  that  have  been  hacked  at  and 
 brutalized.  There  are  appropriate  things 
 to  clip,  but  we  don't  want  every  plant 
 in  the  garden  to  be  a  shape  and  look 
 nothing  like  what  the  plant  grows  into. 
 So  that  takes  a  little  research  and 
 special  selection  of  plants  that  don't 
 get  too  big  for  their  spot  and  aren't 
 destructive.  And  that's  what  I  would 
 advocate  for  when  you  select  your 
 plants.  Planning  or  a  plan  is  so 
 important  because  then  we  can  be 
 thinking  in  advance  about  the  plants 
 that  we're  going  to  use  and  not  just 
 being  moved  by  an  impulse  when  we  go  to 
 the  nursery  and  then  find  out  that  what 
 we  picked  is  too  big  for  the  spot.  just 
 because  it  was  pretty  on  that  day. 
 >> Almost  every  normalsized  tree,  meaning 
 25  ft  tall  and  wide  or  bigger  is  too  big 
 for  a  site  like  this.  A  real  common  one 
 I  see  is  camper.  You  know  that's  a  park 
 tree,  Chinese  elm,  all  the  oaks,  even 
 Chinese  pistach,  which  is  well  behaved, 
 probably  too  big  for  a  site  like  this. 
 In  addition  to  these  fruitless  olives, 
 other  small  patio  scale  trees  are 
 appropriate  that  won't  get  too  big  for 
 this  small  little  site.  Eastern  red  bud 
 or  western  red  bud.  A  lot  of  varieties 
 of  cersus.  [music] 
 The  planting  focuses  on  a  screen  where 
 the  neighbors  property  can  be  screened 
 using  privet  which  is  a  background 
 screening  shrub,  white  lantana, 
 red  hesperallo 
 and  two  kinds  of  salvia.  Salvia  lucantha 
 and  salvia  gregi.  We  have  the  same  types 
 of  planting  on  both  sides  of  the 
 driveway.  And  then  those  plants  are  used 
 over  and  over  throughout  the  rest  of  the 
 garden.  What  we  like  to  do  is  not  use 
 one  plant  here  and  one  plant  there,  but 
 come  up  with  a  fairly  small  plant  pallet 
 and  then  use  it  in  bold  ways.  When  you 
 mass  plants,  you  really  are  affording 
 yourself  a  a  real  look  into  their  beauty 
 because  when  they  bloom,  they  bloom  all 
 together  and  uh  and  and  they  make  quite 
 an  impact. 
 We're  creating  space  [music]  by  using 
 trees  and  shrubs.  But  still,  you've  got 
 to  keep  those  trees  and  shrubs  under 
 control  or  it  just  kind  of  looks  like  a 
 mess.  Even  though  it's  over  100°  today, 
 there's  nothing  wrong  with  pruning  when 
 it's  hot.  As  long  as  you  don't  prune 
 excessively.  If  you  prune  excessively, 
 then  that  heat  can  [music]  can  damage  a 
 tree.  But  if  you  prune  properly,  um 
 there's  nothing  wrong  with  pruning  when 
 it's  hot.  more  important  how  you  prune 
 than  when  you  prune.  Although  the  timing 
 of  the  pruning  [music]  can  serve  to 
 either  encourage  growth  growth  or 
 discourage  growth.  Right  now  we've  just 
 had  spring  here,  so  they've  put  on  all 
 kinds  of  growth.  The  purpose  of  that 
 growth  is  through  photosynthesis 
 to  feed  more  growth.  And  [music]  so  if 
 we  come  and  we  prune  off  a  lot  of  that 
 new  growth,  then  we're  kind  of  tricking 
 the  plant  into  defeating  its  mechanism 
 for  growing  more.  And  these  trees,  we 
 don't  want  them  to  get  too  much  bigger. 
 So  this  is  a  good  time  to  prune.  We're 
 going  to  need  two  kinds  of  pruning 
 shears.  Small  hand  pruners  and  [music] 
 then  bigger  pruning  shears.  Some  people 
 call  these  loopers.  If  the  trees  were 
 bigger,  we  might  need  a  pruning  [music] 
 saw.  What  I  want  to  do  here  is  I  want  to 
 raise  the  level  of  this  tree  a  little 
 bit.  I  want  to  get  rid  of  some  of  this 
 growth  that's  real  low,  especially  since 
 we've  got  other  shrubs  growing  under  it. 
 Bring  it  in  a  little  bit  so  it's  not 
 sprawling  out.  Take  out  the  dead  wood 
 and  I  want  to  thin  it  a  little  bit  to 
 where  you  [music]  can  just  slightly 
 better  get  a  sense  on  what's  on  the 
 other  side. 
 A  wrong  kind  of  cut  on  this  would  be  a 
 heading  back  cut  where  we  say,  "Oh,  we 
 want  to  lift  this  up,  so  we're  going  to 
 cut  this  branch  in  half 
 and  and  you  know,  get  rid  of  part  of 
 it."  The  proper  cut  is  we're  going  to  go 
 all  the  way  back  to  where  this  branch 
 starts.  And  so  this  is  a  thinning  cut 
 where  we  remove  the  branch  entirely  and 
 we  go  very  close  to  the  main  trunk.  We 
 make  a  nice  simple  cut.  We  don't  put  any 
 black  stuff  or  anything  on  it.  It's  a 
 clean  cut.  So  through  the  sun  and  the 
 growth  of  the  tree,  it'll  heal  nicely. 
 This  branch,  I  want  to  make  a  little 
 more  room  for  these  little  ollies.  So  I 
 could  come  back  right  here,  cut  that. 
 That's  a  thinning  cut  that  goes  all  the 
 way  back  to  where  that  branch  starts. 
 And  those  are  the  kind  of  cuts  we  want 
 to  make. 
 The  next  thing  is  a  layer  you  can  add  to 
 your  garden  which  will  completely  change 
 the  way  it  grows  in  a  positive  way.  I 
 will  tell  you  exactly  where  and  how  to 
 use  it.  Frequently  overlooked  is  the 
 importance  of  top  dressing  mulch.  It's 
 actually  a  mini  miracle.  What  top 
 dressing  mulch  does  for  your  soil  is 
 protect  it.  It  also  allows  it  to  break 
 down  and  enrich  it.  It  also  conserves 
 moisture.  And  all  of  these  things  go 
 into  making  it  ecologically  positive  and 
 an  important  part  of  growing  an 
 environmentally  friendly  landscape  and 
 garden.  This  is  not  necessarily 
 something  that  you  can  just  do  one  time. 
 You  need  to  refresh  it  and  renew  it 
 every  few  years.  It's  important  in  terms 
 of  the  health  of  your  soil  and  the 
 health  of  everything  you're  growing  in 
 your  garden.  Another  [clears throat]  big 
 benefit  of  it  is  weed  suppression.  And 
 it's  incredibly  effective,  minimizing 
 the  need  for  any  kinds  of  chemicals  and 
 such.  And  if  you  train  your  yard  that 
 way  over  time,  you  can  end  up  with  a 
 well-trained  yard  that  doesn't  have 
 weeds,  that  has  healthy  soil,  that 
 doesn't  need  a  lot  of  water  just  because 
 of  the  benefits  of  that  top  dress.  If 
 you  want  to  learn  about  all  kinds  of 
 gardening  and  landscaping  issues  and 
 ways  of  addressing  them  properly  and 
 efficiently,  then  please  subscribe  to 
 this  channel. 
 >> [music] 
 >> Doing  too  much  watering  is  a  very  common 
 problem  and  a  problem  that  leads  to  all 
 kinds  of  ramifications.  Too  much  weed 
 growth,  too  many  pests  and  diseases, 
 poor  performance  of  plants.  Nothing  can 
 kill  a  plant  faster  than  too  much  water. 
 I  always  like  to  say  we  want  to  water  as 
 little  as  possible  and  have  everything 
 look  like  it  doesn't  need  watering, 
 which  is  sometimes  a  little  hard  to  get 
 there 
 >> in  a  drought  area  where  we  are.  I  mean, 
 I  think  that's  a  really  good  path  to 
 follow  anyway  cuz  there's  not  a  lot  of 
 water  to  waste. 
 >> So  Eddie,  what  do  you  do  in  your  yard  to 
 apply  less  water? 
 >> I  want  to  be  able  to  give  the  plants 
 just  the  amount  of  water  they  need  or  as 
 close  to  that.  So,  in  many  cases,  I  use 
 automated  watering  systems  with  drip 
 going  to  the  plants,  and  that  works 
 pretty  well.  The  other  thing  that  I'm 
 concerned  about  in  areas  where  too  much 
 water  is  applied  is  that  you  have  a 
 proliferation  of  weeds.  So,  what  I  do  is 
 mulch. 
 >> And  I  use  mulch  year  round,  1  to  3  in 
 depending,  and  that  helps  keep  the 
 germination  of  weeds  down. 
 When  we  first  went  into  business  in 
 1979,  one  of  the  first  jobs  we  did,  the 
 builder  builds  the  house  and  we  work  out 
 a  beautiful  plan  and  then  we're  provided 
 the  landscape  and  we  go  at  it.  And  we 
 relied  on  the  general  contractor  to 
 grade  it  properly.  That  winter  it  rained 
 like  crazy  and  they  had  all  kinds  of 
 problems  with  water  intrusion  into  their 
 house.  Then  they  go  to  their  attorney 
 and  they  sue  their  builder  and  they  sue 
 the  landscape  contractor.  They  sue 
 everybody.  And  that  is  a  big  lesson  that 
 I  learned  in  that  very  first  job  is  to 
 pay  a  lot  of  attention  to  how  your  yard 
 drains  and  try  to  get  that  water  out. 
 When  I  first  moved,  the  yard  in  the  back 
 was  a  mini  lake.  Yeah.  It  it  had  some 
 problems.  In  this  case,  too,  I  also  knew 
 that  being  in  that  part  of  town  in  the 
 northwest  that  we  did  have  some 
 compacted  clay  and  even  some  hard  pan  in 
 certain  areas.  So,  what  we  did  is  we  had 
 a  drainage  system  put  in  with  some 
 French  drains  with  pipes  leading  out  to 
 the  gutter  and  that  helped. 
 >> Yeah,  that's  an  excellent  solution  and 
 usually  those  solutions  are  easier  to 
 accomplish  if  you  plan  them  out  before 
 you  put  in  your  landscape.  The  most 
 common  way  to  drain  is  with  gravity.  You 
 grade  your  soil  properly  just  to  have  it 
 drain.  But  then  when  that  presents 
 problems,  then  you  can  resort  to  French 
 drains,  dry  wells,  drains  that  have 
 inlets.  [music] 
 The  problem  might  not  be  what  you  can 
 see,  but  what's  happening  underneath. 
 Here's  what  most  soil  is  missing  and  how 
 to  sustainably  fix  it.  Nothing  is  more 
 important  environmentally  in  a  garden 
 landscape  than  the  health  of  your  soil. 
 Healthy  soil  is  determined  by  life  in 
 the  soil  and  you  need  beneficial 
 bacteria,  beneficial  fungi,  good 
 prozzoa,  good  nematodes.  All  of  those 
 are  what  makes  your  soil  not  only 
 properly  feed  your  plants,  but  also  make 
 it  so  your  plants  don't  get  pests  and 
 diseases.  when  they  get  pests  and 
 diseases,  you  usually  respond  with 
 something  that  isn't  environmentally 
 friendly,  pesticides  and  such.  And  those 
 are  at  the  very  bottom  of  the  list  of 
 what  we  want  to  be  doing  in  our  garden. 
 The  best  way  to  make  sure  your  soil  has 
 beneficial  life  is  with  products  like 
 compost  and  earthworm  castings  or  our 
 concentrated  products  which  are 
 formulated  specifically  for  this 
 purpose.  We  want  soil  that's 
 environmentally  friendly,  ecologically 
 positive,  and  that  allows  you  to  garden 
 without  having  to  use  chemicals. 
 [music] 
 What  I'm  constantly  trying  to  do  is  use 
 things  that  improve  the  soil  because 
 it's  the  soil  that's  the  most  powerful 
 way  to  prevent  and  defeat  pests  and 
 diseases.  So,  we  don't  want  to  use 
 chemical  pesticides,  but  there's  a 
 number  of  organic  pesticides  that  are 
 tremendously  effective  at  building  the 
 soil  and  addressing  [music]  pests  and 
 diseases  at  the  same  time.  If  you're 
 building  the  soil  properly,  you  end  up 
 with  a  lot  of  good  neatodes.  And  good 
 [music]  neatodes  eat  grubs  or  the 
 beginning  forms  of  grubs.  And  so,  if  you 
 have  a  healthy  soil,  usually  you  won't 
 have  a  grub  problem.  Now,  to  get  there, 
 sometimes  it  takes  a  while  and  you  don't 
 want  to  put  up  with  grubs.  look  into 
 [music] 
 using  our  products  plus  the  use  of 
 beneficial  nematodes.  Some  other 
 products  that  are  natural  pesticides 
 that  work  [music]  fantastic  is  like  BT 
 stands  for  bacillus  thringensis  that's 
 made  from  a  beneficial  bacteria  that  is 
 effective  for  a  lot  of  pests  and  then 
 [music]  also  spinosad  which  is  similar 
 to  Bt  in  that  it's  made  from  a 
 beneficial  bacteria  also  effective  on  a 
 lot  of  pests  and  works  [music]  pretty 
 quickly.  There's  a  range  of  organic 
 solutions  that  build  soil  while  they 
 address  your  pest  or  disease.  And  that's 
 what  I  would  look  to  do.  Starting  with 
 the  beneficial  nematodeses.  If  you're 
 excited  about  learning  more  about 
 landscaping,  but  you  don't  want  to  work 
 real  hard  at  it,  check  out  this  video 
 with  Eddie  the  Lazy  Landscaper,  where  we 
 have  a  little  bit  of  fun  and  hopefully 
 teach  you  how  to  make  smart  decisions 
 when  you  landscape.  Chip  even  does  a  lot 
 of  the  photography  and  has  his  own 
 camera  in  many  of  the  videos.

---

 Do  you  ever  look  at  your  garden  and 
 think,  "Oh  my  god,  how  do  I  make  this 
 look  better?"  You're  not  alone.  The 
 truth  is,  a  pretty  garden  is  not  just 
 about  expensive  plants  or  endless 
 maintenance.  If  you  follow  these 
 landscaping  principles,  I  guarantee 
 you'll  have  a  garden  that's  beautiful, 
 lowmaintenance,  and  an  actual  joy  to 
 spend  time  in.  What  if  your  version  of 
 pretty  looks  totally  different  than 
 everyone  else's?  That's  not  just  okay. 
 It's  kind  of  the  whole  point.  Probably 
 the  most  famous  home  garden  designer  is 
 Thomas  Church.  He  wrote  a  fantastic  book 
 called  Gardens  Are  for  People.  That 
 saying,  "Gardens  are  for  people  infers 
 that  gardens  are  to  meet  your  needs,  to 
 make  your  life  better."  And  so  if  we 
 focus  on  that,  making  your  life  better 
 in  your  own  garden,  then  you're  going  to 
 have  a  landscape  that  is  pretty  to  you 
 and  that  is  functional  for  you  and  that 
 meets  your  everyday  needs  and  improves 
 your  life  on  an  everyday  basis.  So 
 Thomas  Church's  points  are  to  create 
 spaces  that  you  can  conduct  everyday 
 activities  in  and  to  do  important  things 
 like  shade  your  house  and  grow  food.  So 
 in  our  work,  we  come  up  with  front 
 courtyards  all  the  time  that  people  can 
 use  beyond  what  they  ever  anticipated. 
 So  they  can  wait  for  a  ride  or  talk  to 
 their  neighbors.  Get  some  use  out  of  a 
 front  courtyard  rather  than  having  broad 
 expansive  lawn  that  you  never  use.  You 
 only  look  at  and  walk  through  to  get  to 
 the  front  door.  Do  you  think  your  garden 
 is  too  small  or  too  awkward  to  plan 
 properly?  Let  me  show  you  why  planning 
 might  be  the  most  powerful  tool  you 
 have.  It's  a  mistake  to  just  willy-nilly 
 go  into  your  landscape  and  start  making 
 changes.  You'll  regret  some  of  the 
 changes  you  made  a  year  ago.  This 
 process  of  thorough  planning,  analyzing 
 your  site  and  your  house  and  your  needs 
 and  everything  about  what  would  be 
 pretty  to  you  is  important.  and  then  to 
 record  it  some  way.  You  can  either  if 
 you  don't  feel  like  drawing  a  plan  to 
 scale,  you  can  do  it  in  writing  almost 
 like  diary  form,  but  you  can  be  very 
 precise  about  the  things  you  want  to 
 emphasize  and  and  what  your  goals  are 
 and  how  you  think  you  can  achieve  those 
 goals.  Or  you  can  hire  somebody  to  do  a 
 two-scale  drawing,  but  you  need  to 
 somehow  have  a  plan.  What  I  have  found 
 in  the  process  of  trying  to  do  designs 
 is  the  more  time  and  work  I  put  into 
 analyzing  the  site  and  describing  what 
 the  opportunities  and  constraints  are  of 
 the  site,  the  easier  it  is  to  end  up 
 with  something  that  addresses  my  needs. 
 And  in  addressing  my  needs,  it's  pretty. 
 Next  up  is  something  a  lot  of  people 
 tend  to  overlook  when  they  design  their 
 garden.  And  if  you  really  want  that  wow 
 effect,  this  will  help  a  lot.  Many  are 
 tempted  to  use  all  the  strengths  of 
 their  garden  all  in  one  view  where  you 
 walk  out  your  back  door  and  you  look  at 
 your  yard  and  you  see  everything  at 
 once.  And  I  submit  to  you  that  that's  a 
 mistake.  We'd  like  to  incorporate  a 
 little  mystery  into  our  gardens  where 
 you  look  at  a  certain  vantage  point  and 
 you  can't  see  everything.  Even  if  you've 
 got  a  great  view,  we  don't  have  nothing 
 in  front  of  the  view.  We  have  a  garden 
 that  encourages  you  to  walk  through  it 
 and  be  surprised  by  special  spaces  and 
 special  views  of  special  features.  What 
 we're  trying  to  do  is  incorporate 
 mystery  into  the  garden  design.  As  you 
 think  about  that  creatively,  think  about 
 how  you  can  design  something  where  you 
 don't  see  everything  at  once.  You  can 
 use  plant  material  or  shear  type  fencing 
 or  trelluses.  You  need  to  incorporate  a 
 little  bit  of  skill  to  create  this 
 mystery  in  a  way  that's  pleasing  and  not 
 like  you're  building  stockades  in  the 
 middle  of  your  yard  in  order  to  have 
 mystery.  Even  in  this  very  small  garden 
 that  we  did  with  Japanese  maples,  it's 
 very  skillfully  designed  in  a  way  where 
 the  clients  walk  out  their  back  door  and 
 see  kind  of  an  informal  hedge  and  a 
 walkway.  And  once  you  get  on  that 
 walkway,  you  turn  the  corner  and  and 
 there's  more  plantings  and  there's  a 
 bench  and  even  though  it's  very  tiny, 
 you  cannot  see  the  whole  garden  by  just 
 looking  out  the  back  door  and  it's  very 
 intriguing  and  it  gives  mystery  to  the 
 yard.  If  you've  ever  felt  lost  trying  to 
 figure  out  your  garden,  hit  subscribe. 
 Chip,  my  perennial  vice  president,  and  I 
 have  all  the  information  you'll  need  to 
 help  your  garden  flourish.  The  way  you 
 move  through  your  garden  matters  more 
 than  you  think  when  it  comes  to  making 
 it  not  only  pretty  but  functional.  Also, 
 let's  try  to  make  sure  that  every  step 
 feels  intentional.  So,  we  like  to  make 
 the  circulation  what  we  call  interactive 
 where  it  takes  you  through  the  garden, 
 but  not  in  a  way  that  isn't  practical 
 and  doesn't  deliver  you  where  you  want 
 to  be  and  doesn't  encourage  you  to  take 
 shortcuts.  So,  it  needs  to  be  functional 
 and  somewhat  direct,  but  still  I  I  like 
 the  term  an  interactive  garden  where 
 we're  trying  to  get  you  to  walk  through 
 the  garden  to  your  destination  and  wide 
 enough  for  the  number  of  people  you 
 think  will  be  using  it.  So,  if  it's  a 
 main  circulation,  you're  going  to 
 consider  either  four  or  five  foot  walks. 
 And  if  it's  something  more  intimate, 
 going  to  a  private  space,  then  you're 
 probably  going  to  narrow  those  down  to 
 three  feet.  And  if  it's  really  an 
 intimate  part  that  you  would  only  go  to 
 occasionally,  maybe  you  just  have  uh 
 flag  stone  pavers,  you  know,  taking  you 
 back  to  that  spot.  The  size  and  the  type 
 of  paving  is  a  reflection  of  the  amount 
 of  use.  Shapes  that  you  use  are  pretty 
 much  subject  to  what  kind  of  garden 
 you're  designing.  In  a  natural  garden, 
 they're  going  to  be  more  free  form  curve 
 linear  shapes  and  they're  going  to  go  by 
 maybe  groupings  of  rocks.  And  in  a  more 
 formal  or  structured  garden,  you  will 
 have  more  straight  lines.  Just  like  when 
 you  pick  plants,  you  have  a  feeling  in 
 mind.  The  same  applies  to  circulation. 
 The  material  and  the  shape  of  it  evokes 
 certain  feelings.  Concrete  or  brick, 
 rock,  flagstone  paving.  All  of  those  are 
 different  feelings.  And  we  consider  all 
 of  those  as  we  consider  our  own 
 architecture  and  our  own  style  of 
 garden.  No  amount  of  garden  gnomes  or 
 fairy  lights  can  save  sickly  plants.  So, 
 how  do  you  easily  get  that  lush  garden 
 look?  The  key  to  healthy,  lush  looking 
 plants  that  thrive  and  bloom  is  healthy 
 soil.  What  determines  healthy  soil  is 
 lively  soil  with  all  kinds  of  beneficial 
 microbiologies.  We're  going  to  engage 
 the  soil  food  web.  And  getting  that  soil 
 food  web  to  work  for  us  is  the  way  to 
 have  a  healthy  landscape.  The  easiest 
 way  to  make  your  soil  healthy,  full  of 
 life  is  either  with  our  products  or 
 compost,  compost  tea,  things  like 
 earthworm  castings.  They  all  feed  the 
 soil.  We  believe  in  soilbased  gardening. 
 So  when  you  have  healthy  soil,  it  will 
 naturally  feed  your  plants,  even  produce 
 its  own  nitrogen,  phosphorus,  and 
 potassium,  and  all  the  micronutrients 
 and  minerals.  It's  amazing  what  the 
 power  of  soil  is,  and  I  think 
 underappreciated.  One  of  the  things  uh 
 we'd  like  you  to  avoid  because  we  get  a 
 lot  of  questions  about  it.  We  want  to 
 address  plants  will  do  much  better 
 without  landscape  fabric.  The  process  of 
 feeding  soil  is  much  easier  to 
 accomplish  without  landscape  fabric 
 because  usually  our  products  and  most 
 products  get  to  go  into  the  soil  profile 
 from  the  top.  That's  difficult  to  do  if 
 you  have  landscape  fabric  that  tends  to 
 get  clogged  with  roots  or  sediment.  And 
 that  is  frequently  what  happens  to 
 landscape  fabrics.  Now,  what  if  I  told 
 you  your  garden  and  landscape  could  look 
 even  better  if  you  stopped  trying  to 
 overcontrol  it?  Let  me  explain.  How 
 about  if  we  get  away  from  clubbing  our 
 plants  into  submission?  When  we  club  our 
 plants  into  submission,  there's  nothing 
 special  about  them.  They  just  look  like 
 cubes  and  circles  and  rectangles.  Maybe 
 you  should  be  thinking  about  what  plants 
 you  can  use  that  we  can  allow  to  attain 
 their  natural  form.  And  natural  forms  in 
 plants  and  trees  are  way  more  attractive 
 than  plants  and  trees  that  have  been 
 hacked  at  and  brutalized.  There  are 
 appropriate  things  to  clip,  but  we  don't 
 want  every  plant  in  the  garden  to  be  a 
 shape  and  look  nothing  like  what  the 
 plant  grows  into.  So,  that  takes  a 
 little  research  and  special  selection  of 
 plants  that  don't  get  too  big  for  their 
 spot  and  aren't  destructive.  And  that's 
 what  I  would  advocate  for  when  you 
 select  your  plants.  So,  this  hearkens 
 back  to  our  former  point  that  planning 
 or  a  plan  is  so  important  because  then 
 we  can  be  thinking  in  advance  about  the 
 plants  that  we're  going  to  use  and  not 
 just  being  moved  by  an  impulse  when  we 
 go  to  the  nursery  and  then  find  out  that 
 what  we  picked  is  too  big  for  the  spot 
 just  because  it  was  pretty  on  that  day. 
 We  want  pretty  for  20  years,  not  pretty 
 for  a  day.  Sometimes  all  it  takes  is  one 
 small  thing  to  pull  everything  together. 
 And  most  people  overlook  it.  So  we're 
 talking  about  focal  points.  One  or  two 
 or  three  well-placed  showstoppers  of 
 some  type.  Fountain  or  sculpture  or  a 
 bird  bath,  special  colored  pots,  a 
 spectacular  multi-trunk  tree  or 
 something  that  blooms  beautifully. 
 There's  lots  of  ways  to  create  focal 
 points.  The  whole  garden  design  needs  to 
 be  set  up  so  that  these  focal  points  are 
 an  important  part  of  the  design.  Color 
 can  make  or  break  a  garden.  Get  it  right 
 and  your  yard  turns  into  a  showstopper. 
 Get  it  completely  wrong  and  you'll  give 
 everyone  a  headache  maybe.  So,  this  can 
 be  a  sensitive  area  because  I  don't  like 
 to  infer  that  there's  only  one  or  two 
 ways  to  use  color.  It's  very  personal. 
 One  idea  is  to  try  to  figure  out  ways  of 
 having  color  throughout  the  year.  Or 
 maybe  some  people  want  it  to  be  smashing 
 in  the  spring.  Usually,  it's  hard  to  do 
 both.  You  need  to  determine  about  when 
 you  want  your  color  and  then  you  come  up 
 with  a  color  theme.  One  thing  we  like  to 
 use  when  we  use  lantana  is  to  use  white 
 and  purple  trailing  lantana  together. 
 It's  compelling.  It's  beautiful.  It 
 lasts  almost  all  summer.  There's  some 
 easy  things  to  do  that  make  the  use  of 
 color  very  impactful  and  those  are  to 
 mask  the  color  and  to  pick  you  know  one 
 two  or  three  colors  but  I  don't  want  to 
 infer  that  that's  the  only  way  to  design 
 landscapes  effectively.  When  I  run 
 across  really  talented  artistic  people 
 they're  able  to  kind  of  violate  every 
 general  rule  of  designing  with  color  and 
 still  have  things  look  fantastic.  So  you 
 can  be  creative.  Pretty  doesn't  have  to 
 mean  perfect.  When  you  design  with 
 intention  and  a  little  or  a  lot  of 
 imagination,  your  garden  can  become 
 something  that's  uniquely  you.  If  you 
 are  ready  to  go  deeper  into  planting 
 your  own  personal  oasis,  check  out  this 
 video  here.

---

 In  my  60  years  of  gardening  and  my  50th 
 year  as  a  landscape  professional,  I've 
 seen  many  people  make  big  mistakes  in 
 their  landscaping,  usually  [music]  with 
 far-reaching  consequences.  Today,  I  want 
 to  share  with  you  what  most  people,  even 
 professionals,  don't  know  about 
 landscaping.  And  at  the  end,  I'll  reveal 
 an  argument  that  I  have  to  this  day  with 
 other  landscape  professionals  and  why 
 that  might  be  [music]  a  big  mistake  for 
 your  garden.  Starting  with  the  very 
 essence  of  your  design,  there  is  a 
 tendency  to  press  and  try  to  be 
 creative.  And  if  you're  trying  to  be  too 
 creative  and  not  practical,  you  might 
 heir  on  the  side  of  coming  up  with  all 
 kinds  of  fancy  squiggly  little  lines  and 
 thinking  that's  how  to  make  it  look 
 fancy  and  and  interesting.  Quite  the 
 contrary,  the  idea  of  setting  up  your 
 circulation,  so  your  walkways,  your 
 pathways  based  on  use.  I'm  really  fond 
 of  that  idea  that  instead  of  racking 
 your  brain  trying  to  be  creative,  let's 
 rack  our  brains  trying  to  be  practical 
 and  functional  and  within  that  if  we 
 stick  to  bold  lines,  it  can  look 
 extremely  professional  and  be  very 
 useful  at  the  same  time.  So  this  idea  I 
 heard  many  years  ago  was  addressing  a 
 college  campus  where  when  they  made 
 additions  instead  of  putting  in  the 
 circulation  right  away  they  allowed  the 
 students  to  establish  the  circulation 
 where  they  could  see  the  patterns  that 
 were  being  used  because  these  were  the 
 best  fastest  ways  to  get  where  people 
 needed  to  get  and  then  build  the 
 circulation  around  that  using  either 
 straight  lines  or  broadspreading  curve 
 linear  lines.  You  might  have  a  personal 
 preference  for  curve  linear  versus 
 straight  lines.  And  that's  a  valid 
 preference.  That  could  be  how  you  decide 
 whether  you  want  curve  linear  or 
 straight  lines  just  based  on  what  you 
 like  the  look  of.  But  whichever  you 
 choose,  let's  be  direct.  Let's  be  bold. 
 Let's  be  simple  about  it.  There's 
 nothing  wrong  with  straight  lines.  Very 
 practical.  A  lot  of  times  straight  lines 
 tend  to  have  to  be  more  balanced. 
 Symmetrical,  not  necessarily,  but  many 
 times  that's  the  case.  So  if  you  choose 
 curve  linear  lines,  still  focus  on  the 
 simplicity.  So  I  wouldn't  necessarily 
 take  people  to  the  outer  reaches  of  your 
 garden  unless  you  have  an  area  back 
 there  you  want  people  to  be  in  and  then 
 it  can  be  appropriate  that  you  drop  off 
 part  of  the  circulation  drops  off  people 
 there.  The  other  thing  to  keep  in  mind 
 is  as  you  come  up  with  these  curbal 
 linear  lines,  maybe  the  apex  of  the 
 curve  is  a  view  point  from  your  house  or 
 a  viewpoint  from  somewhere  that  you  want 
 the  eye  directed. 
 Next  up,  you've  [music]  probably  been 
 told  you  should  use  compost  to  make  your 
 plants  green  and  healthy,  but  what  most 
 people  get  wrong  is  compost  isn't 
 fertilizer.  Let  me  explain  how  and  why 
 you  can  have  the  benefits  of  both.  You 
 expect  when  you  use  compost  that 
 everything  turns  green  and  healthy  in  a 
 week  or  two.  Well,  that's  not  the  case 
 because  compost  is  really  fertilizer  for 
 soil.  And  most  fertilizers  that  you  buy 
 at  garden  centers  and  nurseries  are 
 specifically  fertilizers  for  plants  that 
 don't  benefit  the  soil.  And  building  the 
 soil  through  compost  has  widespread  and 
 far-reaching  benefits  that  not  only 
 eventually  will  feed  plants  and  allow 
 your  soil  to  create  its  own  macro  and 
 micronutrients.  So  you  don't  need  to 
 apply  anything,  but  also  give  them 
 everything  they  need  in  a  fortifying  way 
 that  allows  soil  to  prevent  almost  every 
 pest  and  disease  there  is.  When  you're 
 using  compost,  you're  starting  a 
 long-term  program.  And  sometimes  that 
 long-term  program  doesn't  result  in  the 
 soil  immediately  producing  the 
 macronutrients  you  need,  for  instance, 
 to  keep  your  lawn  greener  than  the 
 Joneses  down  the  street.  It  might  be  a 
 year  or  two  before  you  notice  a 
 difference  in  the  vitality  and  color  of 
 your  lawn  after  beginning  to  use  compost 
 or  compost  tea.  So,  what  you  might  want 
 to  do  is  products  such  as  ours  and 
 things  like  earthworm  castings  and 
 compost  tea  and  compost  that  not  only 
 build  the  soil  and  do  it  on  a  long-term 
 basis,  but  they  also  can  feed  the  plants 
 at  the  same  time.  And  in  doing  this, 
 you've  got  the  best  of  both  worlds  that 
 act  as  fertilizer  for  the  soil  and 
 fertilizer  for  the  plants 
 simultaneously. 
 As  you  think  of  improving  your  landscape 
 in  your  garden,  most  of  us  want  one  or 
 more  trees,  either  for  shade, 
 aesthetics,  or  even  fruit.  And  once  you 
 find  the  tree  that  you  want  at  your 
 local  nursery,  you  probably  end  up  with 
 something  that  looks  like  this.  And  if 
 you  keep  it  that  way,  you'll  probably 
 end  up  with  something  that  hurts  your 
 tree  in  the  long  run.  So,  you  get  your 
 tree  from  the  nursery  with  this  steak 
 usually  tied  directly  to  it  and  that 
 really  isn't  good  for  the  tree.  The 
 nurseries  need  to  do  it  because  they 
 don't  want  to  sell  crooked  trees  and 
 straight  trees  are  desirable  and 
 preferred  in  most  cases.  But  do  you  know 
 why  that's  not  good  for  the  tree?  Well, 
 Chip  Valentino,  my  vice  president  in 
 charge  of  proper  staking,  is  a  big 
 student  of  this  issue.  And  what  happens 
 if  you  were  to  leave  that  stake  on  the 
 tree?  is  tied  directly  to  the  trunk.  It 
 inhibits  the  movement  of  the  tree.  And 
 it's  that  very  movement  that  allows 
 trees  to  develop  the  kind  of  tensil 
 strength  starting  at  the  bottom  right 
 around  the  soil  that  will  allow  them  to 
 stand  on  their  own  over  time.  Tensil 
 strength  is  when  the  trunk  is  wider  at 
 its  base  than  it  is  1,  2,  and  3,  and  4t 
 high.  And  that  really  is  our  goal.  We 
 don't  want  trees  that  are  permanently 
 staked.  We  want  trees  that  after  a  year 
 or  two,  all  stakes  can  be  removed.  So, 
 this  is  how  you  stake  it  to  have 
 movement  when  the  wind  blows.  We  have 
 two  stakes  and  then  we  have  two  flexible 
 ties.  Professional  staking  is  when  the 
 stakes  end  up  being  exactly  the  same 
 height.  And  the  ties,  in  my  opinion, 
 should  be  just  about  6  in  below  the  top 
 of  the  stakes.  And  the  way  you  determine 
 where  you  should  tie  is  you  grab  it  with 
 your  hand  and  wherever  you  can  hold  it 
 and  have  it  stand  up  straight,  you  go  6 
 in  above  that  and  that's  where  you  put 
 the  ties.  Then  if  you  want,  if  the  trunk 
 has  a  little  curve  in  it  or  something, 
 you  can  straighten  it  with  more  flexible 
 ties  down  lower.  There  is  some 
 controversy  even  among  professionals  is 
 how  you  should  orient  the  stakes.  I 
 really  believe  firmly  you  should  orient 
 the  stakes  so  that  the  prevailing  wind 
 direction  is  perpendicular  to  the 
 stakes.  So  not  where  the  wind  blows  into 
 one  of  the  stakes  but  stakes  on  either 
 side  of  the  tree  and  the  then  the  wind 
 comes  because  that  way  you  can  get  the 
 most  movement  and  that's  what  you  want. 
 This  is  a  big  issue  with  Chip.  And  if 
 you  want  to  learn  about  this  issue  and 
 many  other  important  issues  that  bug 
 Chip,  you  need  to  subscribe  to  our 
 channel.  Lastly,  this  bonus  point 
 [music]  is  something  Chip  and  I  have  had 
 heated  debates  with  landscape 
 professionals  for  years,  and  if  we 
 wanted  to  really  get  deep  into  it,  maybe 
 we'll  make  a  full  video  about  it.  So, 
 let  me  know  in  the  comments  if  you'd 
 like  me  to  do  that.  One  of  the  most 
 impactful  and  important  elements  you 
 design  in  your  landscape  and  your  garden 
 is  the  irrigation  system.  And  many  do  it 
 inefficiently  and  without  an 
 understanding  of  hydraulics.  Let  me 
 explain.  To  really  know  how  to  design  an 
 irrigation  system  is  to  understand 
 pressure.  Pressure  is  key.  Pressure  is 
 more  valuable  than  diamonds.  You'll  see 
 municipalities  and  even  people  going  to 
 great  expenses  to  put  in  booster  pumps, 
 which  are  expensive  and  many  cases  a 
 waste  of  money.  I'd  rather  do  it  without 
 booster  pumps,  but  understand 
 hydraulics.  I've  had  the  opportunity  to 
 interview  people  for  jobs.  And  my  key 
 question  is,  what  would  give  you  the 
 most  pressure  if  you  ended  a  pipe  that 
 you're  going  to  put  a  sprinkler  on  with 
 a  2-in  pipe  or  with  a  half  inch  pipe? 
 And  almost  all  professionals,  if  they 
 don't  really  understand  irrigation 
 design,  they  say,  "Oh,  we  want  to  make 
 it  smaller  at  the  end  to  increase  the 
 pressure.  So,  we'll  go  down  to  a/2  in  or 
 3/4  pipe.  We  get  more  pressure."  That  is 
 100%  wrong.  You  do  increase  velocity, 
 but  you  decrease  pressure.  And  the  only 
 reason  you  use  smaller  pipe  is  not  to 
 increase  pressure.  It's  to  save  money 
 because  the  smaller  pipe  is  a  lot  less 
 expensive  than  a  big  pipe.  So  what 
 irrigation  designers  that  know  what 
 they're  doing,  what  they  do  is  they 
 calculate  what's  the  smallest  pipe  I  can 
 put  throughout  the  system  that  will 
 carry  the  amount  of  water  that  needs  to 
 be  carried  that  will  have  minimal 
 pressure  loss  due  to  friction.  That's 
 what  you're  calculating  is  pressure  loss 
 due  to  friction.  So  how  does  that  apply 
 to  you  in  your  garden  and  landscapes?  We 
 have  a  rule.  We  never  use  half  inch  pipe 
 because  there's  not  a  big  difference  in 
 cost  between  half  inch  and  3/4  and  we're 
 safer  by  just  ending  everything  in 
 three/  quarter  pipe.  And  then  we  know 
 we've  got  plenty  big  pipe  for  most 
 sprinklers.  And  when  you're  talking  to 
 someone  you're  considering  hiring,  you 
 might  ask  them,  "How  do  you  maximize 
 pressure  at  the  end  of  every  line?" 
 Because  you  know  that  pressure  is  key  to 
 your  sprinklers  working  properly.  If 
 they  say,  "I  maximize  pressure  by 
 notching  down  the  size  of  the  pipe," 
 then  they  don't  really  understand  pipe 
 sizing  and  they  don't  really  understand 
 irrigation  hydraulics.  You'd  be  better 
 hiring  somebody  that  understands  that 
 the  pipe  size,  the  bigger  pipe  sizes 
 provide  you  more  pressure.  If  you  want 
 to  hear  more  tips  of  mine  garnered  from 
 60  years  of  experience  in  gardening  and 
 landscaping,  check  out  this  video. 
 >> [music]

---

 Many  people  who  design  their  own 
 landscapes  [music] 
 end  up  with  gardens  that  require  much 
 more  maintenance  than  they  would  like. 
 Today,  Eddie  the  lazy  landscaper  [music] 
 and  I  are  going  to  share  seven 
 landscaping  tips  so  that  you  can 
 actually  enjoy  your  garden.  [music] 
 >> I'm  glad  you  didn't  say  seven  deadly 
 sins  because  you  know  that  would  be  too 
 much  work.  [music] 
 >> You  know  what  most  people  overdo  in 
 their  yards?  I  would  think  that  depends 
 on  whether  the  neighbors  could  see  or 
 not. 
 >> But  actually  it's  watering. 
 >> Ah  well  yeah 
 >> and  doing  too  much  watering  is  a  very 
 common  problem  and  a  problem  that  leads 
 to  all  kinds  of  ramifications.  Too  much 
 weed  growth,  too  many  pests  and 
 diseases,  poor  performance  of  plants. 
 Nothing  can  kill  a  plant  faster  than  too 
 much  water.  I  always  like  to  say  we  want 
 to  water  as  little  as  possible  and  have 
 everything  look  like  it  doesn't  need 
 watering,  which  is  sometimes  a  little 
 hard  to  get  there 
 >> in  a  drought  area  where  we  are.  I  mean, 
 I  think  that's  a  really  good  path  to 
 follow  anyway  cuz  there's  not  a  lot  of 
 water  to  waste. 
 >> So,  Eddie,  what  do  you  do  in  your  yard 
 to  apply  less  water? 
 >> I  want  to  be  able  to  give  the  plants 
 just  the  amount  of  water  they  need  or  as 
 close  to  that.  So,  in  many  cases,  I  use 
 automated  watering  systems  with  drip 
 going  to  the  plants,  and  that  works 
 pretty  well.  The  other  thing  that  I'm 
 concerned  about  in  areas  where  too  much 
 water  is  applied  is  that  you  have  a 
 proliferation  of  weeds.  So,  what  I  do  is 
 mulch,  and  I  use  mulch  year  round,  1  to 
 3  in  depending,  and  that  helps  keep  the 
 germination  of  weeds  down.  Bojan,  this 
 one  might  get  us  [music]  in  trouble. 
 >> Apparently,  we're  going  to  go  after 
 lawns  here.  You  know,  a  lot  of  people 
 treat  their  lawns  like  their  favorite 
 pet, 
 >> which  is  great  if  you  need  a  lawn.  You 
 know,  lawns  are  excellent  for  some 
 things.  They  take  traffic  and  you  can 
 play  on  them.  The  way  I  look  at  it  is 
 nothing  takes  more  work  and  time  and 
 resources  than  lawn.  And  so,  we  should 
 be  very  selective  of  when  we  need  it. 
 So,  sometimes  there's  a  good  reason,  but 
 you  should  be  strategic  about  how  you 
 use  it  and  not  have  it  dominate  your 
 whole  lot.  If  your  goal  is  to  minimize 
 maintenance,  some  people  like  lawns  so 
 much,  but  they  don't  want  the  work, 
 they're  going  more  and  more  to 
 artificial  turf,  which  I'm  not  a  big  fan 
 of,  but  many  like  lawns  that  much  that 
 they  want  to  put  in  a  fake  turf. 
 >> You  know,  I  thought  about  that  actually, 
 but  where  do  you  get  the  artificial 
 water  [laughter] 
 >> in  your  yard?  You  don't  have  a  lawn, 
 >> and  I  think  that  makes  your  maintenance 
 much  simpler.  I've  had  lawns  in  the 
 past,  but  there  wasn't  a  need  for  it. 
 And  I  have  a  smaller  lot.  And  so  I  felt 
 I  could  do  without  it.  And  we  have  a 
 dedicated  area  steps  from  me  that  has 
 plenty  of  lawn  that  we  can  use.  And 
 somebody  else  takes  care  of  that. 
 >> I'll  just  teach  you  just  real  quickly 
 cuz  you  know  I'm  fluent  in  French. 
 >> French  bread,  French  fries.  I  mean  I 
 come  on  the  way  to  say  cut  the  grass  in 
 French.  Mole  the  lawn. 
 There  are  things  out  there  that  make 
 your  yard  highmaintenance  if  you  let 
 them. 
 >> And  one  of  the  biggest  culprits,  Eddie 
 the  lazy  landscaper,  is 
 >> the  sun  or  where  your  plants  are  planted 
 in  relationship  to  the  sun.  Some  plants 
 thrive  on  sun.  Others  don't 
 >> because  folks  don't  know  better.  They 
 buy  them  at  a  nursery  or  a  big  store  and 
 bring  them  home  and  plant  them  next  to 
 other  plants  with  completely  different 
 watering  needs  and  completely  different 
 sun  and  shade  needs. 
 >> Yeah,  that's  true.  So,  there  are  a  lot 
 of  things  uh  besides  the  lawn  that  can 
 cause  a  high  degree  of  maintenance. 
 >> In  our  area,  a  lot  of  home  gardeners 
 seem  to  like  plants  that  don't  like  a 
 lot  of  sun,  but  they  like  them  so  much 
 that  they  insist  on  planting  them.  And 
 so,  if  you're  going  to  plant  those  in 
 areas  where  they  get  too  much  sun,  your 
 point  is  a  good  one.  You  should  plant 
 them  all  together  and  water  them  all 
 together  because  you're  going  to  want  to 
 keep  those  root  balls  moist  in  the 
 middle  of  the  summer.  and  you  shouldn't 
 combine  them  with  plants  all  over  your 
 yard  that  need  regular  watering.  Sun 
 exposure  is  a  big  deal  in  determining 
 the  appropriateness  of  plants  in 
 different  areas  of  your  yard  and  nothing 
 should  be  considered  much  more  than  what 
 kind  of  sun  exposure.  It's  usually  one 
 of  the  first  questions  you  get  asked 
 when  you  think  about  what  plant  you're 
 going  to  use.  We  just  talked  all  about 
 exposures.  Are  you  optimistic  that 
 people  will  understand  what  we're  trying 
 to  explain? 
 I'd  say  there's  a  ray  of  hope. 
 >> Okay,  Eddie,  we're  back  to  water  again, 
 [music]  but  this  time  we're  not 
 necessarily  talking  about  your 
 sprinklers. 
 >> This  one's  sneakier.  This  is  the  kind 
 that  shows  up  uninvited. 
 >> When  we  first  went  into  business  in 
 1979,  one  of  the  first  jobs  we  did,  the 
 builder  builds  the  house  and  we  work  out 
 a  beautiful  plan  and  then  we're  provided 
 the  landscape  and  we  go  at  it.  and  we 
 relied  on  the  general  contractor  to 
 grade  it  properly.  That  winter  it  rained 
 like  crazy  and  they  had  all  kinds  of 
 problems  with  water  intrusion  into  their 
 house.  Then  they  go  to  their  attorney 
 and  they  sue  their  builder  and  they  sue 
 the  landscape  contract.  They  sue 
 everybody.  And  that  is  a  big  lesson  that 
 I  learned  in  that  very  first  job  is  to 
 pay  a  lot  of  attention  to  how  your  yard 
 drains  and  try  to  get  that  water  out. 
 When  I  first  moved,  the  yard  in  the  back 
 was  a  mini  lake.  Yeah.  it  it  had  some 
 problems  in  this  case  too.  I  also  knew 
 that  being  in  that  part  of  town  in  the 
 northwest  that  we  did  have  some 
 compacted  clay  and  even  some  hard  pan  in 
 certain  areas.  So  what  we  did  is  we  had 
 a  drainage  system  put  in  with  some 
 French  drains  with  pipes  leading  out  to 
 the  gutter  and  that  helped.  Yeah,  that's 
 an  excellent  solution  and  usually  those 
 solutions  are  easier  to  accomplish  if 
 you  plan  them  out  before  you  put  in  your 
 landscape.  The  most  common  way  to  drain 
 is  with  gravity.  You  grade  your  soil 
 properly  just  to  have  it  drain.  But  then 
 when  that  presents  problems,  then  you 
 can  resort  to  French  drains,  dry  wells, 
 drains  that  have  inlets.  Drainage  is 
 part  of  a  bigger  problem  that  usually 
 starts  [music]  before  a  plant  is  even  in 
 the  ground. 
 >> Well,  yeah.  I  mean,  you've  got  to  have 
 the  plans  for  your  landscape.  And  if  you 
 don't,  you're  already  getting  off  to  a 
 shaky  start. 
 >> Yes.  It  starts  when  we  are  actually 
 initiating  and  working  on  the  design.  A 
 good  landscape  design  will  help  you 
 avoid  overplanting.  Avoid  one  of  my  pet 
 peeves  which  is  planting  plants  that  are 
 too  big  for  their  place.  We  think  we 
 have  a  nicel  looking  house.  You  have  a 
 nicel  looking  house.  Why  plant  20ft 
 shrubs  in  front  of  it  that  then  you  have 
 to  prune  like  crazy?  That's  not  how  they 
 look  their  best  and  that's  high 
 maintenance.  Most  plants  you  can  plant 
 them  in  the  right  spacing  and  the  right 
 places  that  you  just  let  them  grow. 
 >> You  know,  another  thing  of  consideration 
 wasn't  as  much  a  consideration  in  my 
 smaller  yard,  but  in  especially  in  a 
 little  larger  properties,  folks  want  to 
 have  topography.  They  want  to  have 
 mounds,  but  if  they're  not  placed  in  the 
 correct  way,  they  can  cause  some 
 drainage  problems  on  their  own.  Man-made 
 drainage  problems. 
 >> I  see  that  all  the  time.  come  back  into 
 a  house,  even  go  into  a  neighbor's 
 property. 
 >> A  properly  considered  and  thought  out 
 design  is  one  of  the  most  important 
 steps  to  limiting  maintenance.  If  you 
 feel  landscape  design  isn't  your  strong 
 suit,  but  you  want  a  great  design,  I  got 
 a  solution  for  you.  Subscribe  to  this 
 channel.  So,  an  expert  along  with  Eddie 
 the  Lady  Landscaper  on  minimizing  work 
 and  problems  in  your  garden  is  Chip 
 Valentino,  my  vice  president  in  charge 
 of  easy  peasy  landscaping.  I'll  admit 
 there  are  some  parts  of  landscape 
 maintenance  that  I  don't  even  like  doing 
 >> really. 
 >> But  the  good  news  is  there  are  a  few 
 tools  and  tricks  that  will  make  it  so 
 you  and  I  and  Chip  will  never  have  to  do 
 it  again. 
 >> Oh,  that  sounds  good  to  me.  If  you  have 
 a  lawn,  let's  contain  that  lawn  so  that 
 it  doesn't  become  a  weed  and  grow 
 outside  the  desired  area.  Many  people 
 have  that  problem  with  lawn  that  grows 
 and  spreads  like  Bermuda.  And  that  is  a 
 big  part  of  minimizing  landscape 
 maintenance.  The  other  neat  thing  I  like 
 about  proper  edging  is  you  maintain  a 
 certain  shape  to  it  and  you  maintain 
 certain  lines  which  you  probably  spent  a 
 lot  of  time  coming  up  with  when  you 
 designed  the  garden.  And  so  that  allows 
 you  to  stick  to  that.  You  now  have  it 
 contained.  It  won't  spread.  It  won't 
 become  a  weed  growing  into  your  planting 
 areas.  That  makes  it  good  for  Eddie  the 
 lazy  landscape. 
 >> Absolutely.  And  I've  had  reverse 
 situations  where  I'm  trying  to  keep 
 ground  cover  that's  spreading  within  a 
 flower  bed  to  not  get  in  a  compacted 
 gravel  area. 
 >> Have  you  ever  seen  a  tree  at  the  nursery 
 and  immediately  fell  in  love  with  it  and 
 think,  "That's  [music]  it.  That's  the 
 one."  And  five  years  later,  it  looks 
 like  you're  living  in  the  shadow  of  a 
 skyscraper. 
 >> And  that  shadow  creates  all  kinds  of 
 problems.  I've  been  there  and  I've  seen 
 it.  Let's  tell  you  how  not  to  make  that 
 mistake.  Tree  sizes.  There's  lots  of 
 tempting  trees  to  plant  that  are  way  too 
 big  for  small  sites.  And  we  see  them 
 used  all  the  time,  especially  in  new 
 subdivisions  because  they  tend  to  have 
 smaller  lots.  And  they're  trees  that  not 
 only  get  too  big  on  the  top,  but  they 
 get  too  big  in  the  roots  and  they  cause 
 all  kinds  of  problems.  maybe  with  your 
 foundation,  with  your  driveway,  with 
 your  walkways.  Nothing  makes  a  more 
 highmaintenance  landscape  than 
 inappropriately  sized  trees. 
 >> That's  why  I've  chosen  in  my  yard  a 
 smaller  yard  trees  like  uh  lagrass  draia 
 crepe  myrtle,  the  hibiscus  tree,  some  of 
 the  Japanese  maples,  you  know,  they  come 
 in  different  sizes.  I  like  to  talk  a  lot 
 about  patio  scale  trees.  And  patio  scale 
 trees  like  you  have  at  your  house  next 
 to  your  pool  make  it  so  that  you  can  do 
 lots  of  interesting  things  around  those 
 trees.  They  don't  get  too  big  for  their 
 spot.  They  don't  damage  neighboring 
 paving  and  foundations.  They  behave 
 themselves.  The  other  thing  that's  a 
 real  pet  peeve  for  me  when  I  go  into 
 especially  into  neighborhoods  that  are 
 kind  of  pre-planned  with  all  the  same 
 size  lots  and  that  kind  of  thing,  people 
 have  not  been  considered  of  their 
 neighbors  and  they  plant  a  25-  ft  canopy 
 tree  5  ft  from  the  fence.  Part  of  that's 
 going  to  help  you  with  shade,  but  it's 
 going  to  really  impose  on  your  neighbor. 
 Those  are  things  that  are  important 
 considerations  if  you  want  to  get  along 
 with  your  neighbors  in  a  few  years. 
 >> And  those  might  drop  right  into  their 
 pool. 
 >> They  very  well  could.  Bonus  time. 
 
 [music] >> This  might  be  the  most  important  one  of 
 all. 
 >> If  you  skip  this,  everything  else  we've 
 talked  about  could  just  fall  apart. 
 >> I  think  it's  the  most  important  part  of 
 landscaping  and  gardening,  and  that's 
 the  health  of  your  soil.  And  I  define 
 healthy  soil  by  soil  that  has  lots  of 
 beneficial  microbiology.  So  beneficial 
 bacteria,  fungi,  good  nematodeses, 
 prozzoa.  If  you  build  life  in  the  soil, 
 you're  creating  soil  that  can  most 
 effectively  feed  your  plants  and  most 
 effectively  prevent  and  defeat  pests  and 
 disease.  So  in  other  words,  you're 
 creating  a  garden  that  Eddie  the  Lazy 
 Landscaper  would  thrive  in  because  it 
 will  need  very  little  outside  help.  It's 
 a  self-  sustaining  ecosystem  if  you  do 
 it  properly  with  your  soil. 
 >> So  on  the  spectrum  of  developing  an 
 intelligent  landscape,  we  have  to  start 
 with  a  good  plan.  And  then  we  have  to 
 take  into  consideration  the  other  things 
 we've  talked  about  and  end  with  a 
 healthy  alive  soil  that  helps  all  the 
 other  things  we've  talked  about,  the 
 trees,  the  plants  to  prosper.  Yeah.  The 
 health  of  the  soil  impacts  drainage.  It 
 impacts  the  ability  of  the  plants  to 
 prosper.  It  impacts  everything  there  is 
 in  a  landscape,  especially  everything 
 that  you  need  to  be  successful, 
 >> right? 
 >> And  everything  Eddie  the  lazy  landscaper 
 is  concerned  about  in  order  to  minimize 
 maintenance 
 >> and  maximize  nap  time. 
 >> There's  nothing  like  a  good  garden  nap. 
 After  60  years  of  gardening,  I've  had  a 
 lot  more  lessons  than  just  the  ones  we 
 just  talked  about  in  this  video.  So,  if 
 you  want  to  shortcut  60  years  of 
 gardening  [music]  advice  in  just  15 
 minutes,  watch  this  video  right

---

 Rock  is  an  underrated  way  not  only  to 
 make  your  landscape  look  amazing,  but 
 also  to  add  a  lot  of  potential 
 functionality  to  your  garden.  And  I  love 
 functionality.  Today,  I  want  to  give  you 
 rock  landscaping  ideas  that  are 
 lowmaintenance  and  high  impact. 
 This  first  one,  you  don't  [music]  need 
 to  be  a  professional  landscaper  to  pull 
 off,  but  starting  with  this  will 
 instantly  make  your  landscape  feel  more 
 designed,  more  expensive,  and  have  more 
 curb  appeal.  There  was  a  big  trend  some 
 years  back  where  everyone  thought  they 
 had  to  have  boulders.  And  there  still 
 are  appropriate  places  to  use  settings 
 of  boulders,  especially  if  you're  trying 
 to  create  a  natural  type  landscape  with 
 mounds  and  to  remind  yourself  where 
 boulders  would  occur  in  nature.  Since 
 we're  trying  to  remind  ourselves  of 
 nature,  I  think  when  you  set  boulders, 
 you  should  use  principles  from  nature. 
 And  those  would  be  to  do  the  settings  in 
 odd  numbers  of  threes  and  fives.  Not  put 
 two  rocks  right  next  to  each  other. 
 Whatever  the  size  and  shape  of  the 
 boulder,  it  should  be  about  one/3 
 buried.  So  it  looks  like  it's  coming  out 
 of  the  soil,  not  laying  on  top  of  the 
 soil.  And  the  other  thing  is  use 
 settings  that  have  a  variety  of  boulder 
 shapes.  So,  like  if  you're  going  to  use 
 a  grouping  of  three,  you  could  put  one 
 flat  rock,  one  rounded  rock  that's  a 
 little  taller  and  maybe  one  upright 
 rock.  Those  make  interesting  and  very 
 natural  looking  settings,  especially 
 when  they're  buried  appropriately.  Hey, 
 it  just  came  to  us  at  the  Fresno  Chaffy 
 Zoo.  We  did  an  Asian  exhibit  with 
 boulders.  perfect  place  to  use  rock 
 outcroppings  because  we're  attempting  to 
 remind  ourselves  of  nature  and  we  used 
 these  principles.  [music]  That  was  a 
 pretty  bold  start.  But  what  if  I  told 
 you  there's  an  easy  way  to  add  structure 
 and  style  to  your  yard  without  pouring  a 
 single  drop  of  concrete?  So,  when  you 
 think  of  circulation  and  walkways,  you 
 might  immediately  think  of  concrete  or 
 asphalt  or  brick,  but  there's  a  much 
 less  expensive  and  environmentally 
 friendly  alternative  that  we  do  a  lot 
 of,  and  they  are  made  out  of  a 
 combination  of  decomposed  granite  and 
 gravel.  These  are  pathways  that  we've 
 done  many,  many  times  on  many  of  our 
 jobs  and  they  make  an  excellent 
 alternative  to  more  expensive  types  of 
 paving.  Depending  on  how  much  traffic  is 
 on  it,  if  a  lot  of  traffic's  on  it,  we 
 might  use  base  rock  first.  Sometimes  if 
 it's  just  pedestrian  and  minor  traffic, 
 we  might  just  use  decomposed  granite  for 
 2  to  3  in.  And  then  we  use  a  thin  layer 
 of  some  type  of  attractive  looking 
 gravel.  Could  be  3/8  inch  gravel.  It 
 could  be  3/4  in  gravel.  And  we  put  that 
 right  on  top  of  the  DG.  And  then  we  use 
 a  vibratory  compactor  and  we  press  it 
 into  the  decomposed  granite.  Usually 
 we'll  use  edging  to  define  it  and  to 
 keep  the  DG  and  the  rock  all  within  the 
 boundaries  that  we  want  it.  If  this 
 video  rocks,  please  hit  subscribe  and 
 don't  take  it  for  granted.  Many  people 
 think  this  next  option  looks  great  and 
 it  can  help  your  soil  and  plants. 
 Something  that  any  person  with  a  yard 
 should  prioritize  and  that  is  protecting 
 the  soil.  Now,  normally  when  you  think 
 of  protecting  the  soil  with  some  kind  of 
 top  dress,  you  think  of  some  type  of 
 wood-based  mulch  which  is  fantastic  for 
 soil.  But  there  is  another  option  and 
 that  is  rock  products.  And  the  rock 
 products  come  in  many  different  sizes 
 and  colors.  And  they  also  protect  the 
 soil  if  you  do  it  properly  and  amend  the 
 soil  properly  before  and  after.  We  like 
 to  use  our  John  and  Bob's  products  like 
 Blend.  What  I  think  is  important  if  you 
 use  uh  rock  products  as  a  mulch  is  not 
 to  make  it  real  thick.  Obviously  the 
 same  thing  as  with  wood  mulch.  You  don't 
 want  to  pile  the  rocks  up  around  the 
 base  of  the  plants.  It  can  be  just  an 
 inch  thick.  And  I  don't  mean  to  infer 
 that  if  you're  going  to  use  rock,  it  has 
 to  all  be  rock.  I  think  it's  an 
 interesting  look  to  have  certain  areas 
 where  you  think  wood  mulch  would  be 
 better,  maybe  because  of  the  type  of 
 plants  you're  growing,  and  then  areas 
 that  are  for  rock  mulch  only.  Many 
 people  associate  rock  mulch  with 
 landscape  fabric,  and  I  would  encourage 
 you  not  to  use  landscape  fabric  where 
 you  are  using  plants.  And  if  you're 
 using  rock  mulch  with  plants,  we  want 
 the  ability  of  products  like  ours  to 
 break  down  with  water  and  go  into  the 
 soil  profile.  With  landscape  fabric, 
 that  becomes  a  very  difficult 
 proposition.  And  many  times  the 
 landscape  fabric  over  time  gets  plugged 
 up  with  roots.  We  like  to  relegate  the 
 use  of  landscape  fabric  to  only  places 
 without  plants.  This  next  clever  rock 
 trick  turns  a  boring  and  potentially 
 problematic  part  of  your  property  into 
 something  functional  and  elegant.  We 
 went  over  the  walkway  out  of  gravel.  You 
 can  do  expanded  walkways  and  make  them 
 driveways.  And  we've  done  many.  And  if 
 you  use  a  decorative  rock,  they're 
 really  attractive.  And  we  make  them  very 
 sturdy.  You  can  see  this  one  here  at  my 
 house  where  we  used  uh  about  3  in  of  DG 
 and  then  we  pressed  this  very  attractive 
 rock  into  it.  We  have  an  example  here 
 where  we  just  used  DG  because  that's 
 what  the  homeowners  thought  they  wanted 
 and  they  started  having  problems  with 
 just  the  plain  DG.  For  one  thing,  it 
 tracked  and  every  time  it  got  wet  and 
 they  drove  over  it,  they  essentially 
 removed  some  of  the  DG  on  their  tires 
 and  so  it  got  to  be  less  and  less  and 
 then  water  from  rain  and  from  sprinklers 
 came  into  the  equation  and  went  into  low 
 spots  and  made  kind  of  a  muddy  mess.  So, 
 we  took  that  DG  that  was  there,  we 
 leveled  it  out  and  we  put  on  top  of  it 
 3/4  in  gravel  called  Sierra.  And  it  has 
 worked  fantastic.  Now  it's  a  clean, 
 permanent  paving,  very  inexpensive. 
 We're  not  stopping  at  functions.  The 
 next  rock  use  can  change  [music]  the 
 entire  vibe  of  your  garden.  And  we're 
 interested  in  changing  the  vibe.  This  is 
 an  interesting  landscape  that  the  owner 
 helped  us  design.  And  she  had  what 
 turned  out  to  be  this  great  idea.  We 
 used  edging  to  define  these  ground  cover 
 areas.  And  then  next  to  the  ground  cover 
 areas,  she  wanted  to  suggest  movement. 
 And  it  was  a  little  hard  to  picture  when 
 she  was  describing  it,  but  as  we  laid  it 
 out  over  time,  it  has  become  more  and 
 more  evident  that  it  works.  You  get  this 
 sense  of  movement  and  motion  without 
 anything  moving.  And  so  we  used  edging 
 and  then  we  used  a  3/8  inch  California 
 gold  rock  and  put  it  over  just  a  little 
 probably  a/  inch  of  um  decomposed 
 granite.  And  you  can  see  that  it's  very 
 effective.  There  are  other  ideas  where 
 you  can  use  rock  to  change  the  vibe  of  a 
 landscape.  One  of  them  that  I  like  to 
 use  is  different  types  of  rocks  and  set 
 them  into  decomposed  granite.  In  this 
 case  here,  we  used  uh  two  types  of  rock. 
 One  is  4  to  8  in  Noa  pebbles.  We  also 
 used  Mexican  cobble.  They're  smaller. 
 They're  dark  grayish  blackish  for  this 
 interesting  contrast  in  cobble  and  a 
 kind  of  a  a  wave  that  runs  through  it. 
 And  what  we're  trying  to  do  is  create 
 some  interest  right  up  next  to  the 
 house,  but  we're  trying  to  keep  the  area 
 dry.  We  don't  want  to  be  throwing  water 
 on  it.  And  there's  low  windows,  so  we 
 don't  want  water  to  splash  on  the 
 windows.  And  it  does  change  the  vibe  of 
 your  garden.  Really  unique  use  of  rock 
 and  boulders  that  we  ran  across  recently 
 was  actually  in  a  city  setting.  The  city 
 had  problems  with  homeless  people 
 congregating  and  trampling  plants  in  the 
 middle  of  a  big  roundabout.  Came  up  with 
 an  interesting  design  using  rock  to 
 solve  all  their  problems.  They  used 
 crush  granite  as  you  can  see  here  around 
 the  outside  to  make  it  difficult  to  get 
 into  this  planting  in  the  middle  of  the 
 roundabout.  And  then  they  used  mounds 
 and  boulders  to  make  it  so  people 
 couldn't  drive  their  cars  through  there, 
 which  they  had  a  problem  with  that.  And 
 then  even  the  3/8  in  California  gold  is 
 used  as  a  ground  cover  mulch.  It's  rock, 
 rock  and  rock  solving  all  kinds  of 
 problems,  making  it  lowmaintenance, 
 difficult  to  access.  So  it's  an 
 interesting  use  of  design  concepts  with 
 boulders  and  rocks  to  solve  a  problem. 
 This  is  Chip  Valentino,  my  [music]  vice 
 president  in  charge  of  boulders  and 
 rocks,  and  he's  ready  to  describe  the 
 next  way  to  use  rock.  So  far,  you've 
 seen  some  big  picture  ideas,  but  in  this 
 next  one,  Chip  and  I  are  going  to 
 explain  the  details.  Okay,  so  we're 
 talking  about  rock,  and  you  can  have 
 faux  rock  or  things  that  are  more  like 
 pavers  that  look  like  rock  or  pieces  of 
 concrete  that  are  made  to  look  like  rock 
 as  edging  for  lawns  or  as  used  for  the 
 construction  of  raised  planters.  And 
 there's  a  lot  of  use,  especially  if  the 
 garden  lends  itself  to  this  idea  of 
 natural  materials.  If  you  have  a  very 
 formal  looking  garden,  then  you're 
 probably  not  going  to  want  to  use  faux 
 rock.  It's  hard  to  do  that  in  a  way 
 that's  structured.  So  whether  you're 
 going  full  boulder  or  using  pebbles  for 
 mulch,  rocks  can  seriously  level  up  your 
 landscape.  If  you  are  on  a  budget,  but 
 you  still  want  to  have  a  garden  that 
 looks  amazing  without  breaking  the  bank, 
 click  this  video  for  some  [music]  DIY, 
 budget  friendly  landscape  ideas.

---

 I'm  here  with  my  friend  Santa,  and  we're 
 walking  down  the  iconic  Christmas  tree 
 lane  in  Fresno,  California. 
 >> Ho  ho  ho.  Merry  Christmas. 
 >> We're  talking  about  how  to  decorate  your 
 landscape  with  Christmas  [music]  lights 
 for  maximum  curb  appeal.  I'll  be  using 
 my  knowledge  of  landscape  design  and 
 landscape  lighting  to  help  you  figure 
 out  the  best  way  to  use  your  Christmas 
 lights. 
 >> I  feel  more  enlightened  already. 
 
 [screaming] >> AH,  I  GET  IT.  OH,  SALLY,  you're  killing 
 me. 
 >> This  first  one  looks  elegant  and 
 expensive  because  of  how  they  used  the 
 color.  So,  here  we  have  a  very  simple 
 [music]  unified  color  scheme,  very 
 attractive,  but  just  red  and  white. 
 There's  a  couple  ways  to  think  about 
 color  in  your  lights.  One  is  to  come  up 
 [music]  with  a  very  definitive,  simple 
 color  scheme  that  would  be  considered 
 good  design.  Another  is  to  please  the 
 kids  in  your  life  and  have  a  wild  crazy 
 amount  of  color.  For  Christmas,  I  think 
 either  one's  appropriate,  but  this  one 
 is  really  striking  in  its  simplicity  and 
 very  attractive  in  the  landscape  here  at 
 Christmas.  These  lights  highlight  the 
 plantings  just  like  we're  highlighting 
 in  non  Christmas  times  with  our  lighting 
 systems.  Dramatic,  striking,  all  one 
 color.  So,  this  is  the  tree  that  my 
 grandson  likes  [music]  because  it's 
 colorful  and  he  thinks  we  should  fill 
 the  whole  place  with  these  trees.  What 
 color  is  it  right  now? 
 >> Green. 
 >> Oh,  blue. 
 >> Well,  it'll  change  and  it'll  have  all 
 kinds  of  colors  mixed  in.  [music] 
 And  he  loves  it.  Chip  has  a  fantasy.  He 
 would  like  to  be  one  of  the  reindeer. 
 We've  got  Dasher  and  Dancer,  Blick, 
 Blintson,  and  Chip. 
 This  next  one  allows  you  to  show  off 
 your  tree  pruning  skills.  If  you  have  a 
 nice  tree,  in  this  case,  nicely  [music] 
 pruned  olive  trees,  you  can  really 
 highlight  the  structure  of  the  trunk  and 
 the  branching  with  lights.  And  [music] 
 then  this  in  combination  with  lights 
 shining  up  into  it.  It's  festive, 
 attractive,  classy,  and  if  you  wanted  it 
 to  really  be  sparkly,  [music]  you  could 
 use  lights  of  different  colors.  A 
 beautiful  double  row  of  lemon  trees. 
 [music] 
 Beautifully  lit  up,  nicely  pruned,  and 
 you  can  see  the  structure  of  the  lemon 
 trees.  This  is  a  way  to  light  up  your 
 tree.  It's  uh  first  class.  Here  we  have 
 the  epitome  of  a  life  Christmas  tree,  a 
 beautiful  big  Dodar  cedar  lit  up  with 
 Christmas  lights.  [music] 
 So,  any  type  of  conifer  takes  to 
 lighting  and  decorating  very  well 
 outside  as  well  as  inside.  Let's  use  our 
 lights  to  show  off  our  trees.  If  you 
 don't  want  coal  in  your  stocking,  you 
 better  subscribe  to  this  channel. 
 >> We  can't  duplicate  nature,  but  we  can 
 remind  ourselves  of  nature  in  our 
 landscapes.  And  we  do  the  same  thing 
 with  Christmas  decorations  where  we're 
 reminding  ourselves  of  natural  trees  and 
 looking  at  what  they  would  look  like  all 
 lit  up.  It's  very  similar  to  how  we  use 
 trees  in  landscaping.  You  can  see  that 
 here  at  this  next  house. 
 >> Well,  hello  Paula.  How  are  you?  Santa, 
 >> you  got  a  hug  for  me.  You  know,  you 
 know,  Paul,  I've  known  you  since  you 
 were 
 >> that  big  and  look  at  you  now.  You're  all 
 grown  up  with  this  beautiful  house.  Your 
 place  is  unbelievable. 
 >> A  Thank  you. 
 >> My  absolute  favorite  yard.  How'd  you 
 come  about  designing  such  a  beautiful  uh 
 display  here? 
 >> Christmas  Tree  Lane  is  all  about  our 
 kids,  right,  in  our  community  and  their 
 families.  And  so,  I  wanted  to  make  it 
 kid-friendly.  So,  I  added  these  lovely 
 little  elves  that  might  make  them  smile. 
 >> The  uh  orchard  or  the  grove,  I  should 
 say.  It's  not  an  orchard. 
 >> They  call  it  a  forest.  It's  a  magical 
 forest. 
 >> And  do  you  identify  the  type  of  tree? 
 Like  I  would. 
 >> Well,  I  need  your  help.  But  I  think 
 they're  kind  of  sort  of  birch  trees  cuz 
 they  have  the  white  trunks,  right? 
 >> These  look  to  me  like  European  white 
 birch. 
 >> Do  European  white  birches  have  all  these 
 colors  though? 
 >> No,  just  the  white.  So,  I  don't  know  how 
 you  got  all  the  colors,  [laughter]  but 
 they're  really  spectacular.  Even 
 [snorts]  though  there's  a  lot  of  colors, 
 it  doesn't  seem  busy.  [music] 
 >> I  don't  know.  It's  just  kind  of  the 
 right  mix  of  them.  I  have  tall  trees  and 
 I  have  smaller  trees.  I'm  trying  to 
 create  some  flow  throughout.  And  I  take 
 the  colors  and  sprinkle  them  throughout. 
 They  kind  of  zigzag.  If  you  look  at  the 
 colors  and  all  combined,  they  work  well 
 together. 
 >> Oh,  we're  getting  close  to  Whoville, 
 right?  If  you  don't  have  much  time  to 
 decorate,  these  next  ones  allow  you  to 
 do  something  quickly  while  still  looking 
 uniform  and  organized.  Net  lights. 
 Beautiful.  Chip  loves  them.  A  great  way 
 to  use  existing  shrubs  and  make  them 
 [music]  festive.  You  get  a  combination 
 of  mass  lighting  and  beautiful  foliage. 
 Oh,  wow.  Look  at  Whoville. 
 Wow.  Look  at  that  chip.  It's  [music] 
 electric  ground  cover.  You  can  light  up 
 your  ground  cover.  You  [music]  have  to 
 be  really  skillful  to  identify  this  in 
 the  dark  with  Christmas  lights.  I  think 
 maybe  it's  Asian  jasmine  or  maybe  star 
 jasmine.  Lit  up  ground  cover.  You  don't 
 have  to  just  light  up  trees.  I  think  my 
 grandson  would  like  this  one.  Ground 
 cover  is  an  important  part  of 
 landscaping  because  it  makes  the  ground 
 plane  look  green  or  colorful.  That's  why 
 lawns  are  such  a  big  attraction  because 
 you  get  this  lush  green  look.  Well,  in 
 this  case,  when  we  light  up  our  grand 
 cover,  we  get  this  lush,  bright,  sparkly 
 look,  and  it's  beautiful  at  Christmas 
 time. 
 >> You  know,  uh,  my  elves  told  me  recently 
 their  favorite  Christmas  song  is,  uh, 
 Blue  Blue  Christmas  by  Elvis  Presley. 
 >> Yeah,  Elvis  Presley.  One  of  their  one  of 
 their  favorites.  Uh,  I  I  think  I'll  try 
 another  joke  in  a  minute.  That 
 [laughter]  was 
 >> Merry  Christmas. 
 >> Merry  Christmas. 
 What  do  you  think  of  a  Reuben  sandwich? 
 Well,  this  next  tip  relates  to  a 
 lighting  sandwich.  What  is  a  lighting 
 sandwich?  Well,  it's  more  than  one  layer 
 of  lighting,  and  we  see  that  here  at 
 this  landscape  done  with  Christmas 
 lights.  So,  we're  in  the  middle  of 
 Whoville.  This  is  to  an  ultimate  degree 
 here.  But  it  [music]  does  give  us  a 
 sense  of  lighting  at  different  levels 
 being  really  effective,  especially  for 
 Christmas  lights,  but  even  in  the 
 non-Christ. 
 So  with  lighting,  you  can  do  your  ground 
 cover,  you  can  do  your  fence,  you  can  do 
 your  roof.  So  you  have  lights  at 
 different  levels.  And  in  landscaping,  we 
 have  the  same  thing  going  on.  We  have 
 the  ground  plane,  we  have  shrubs  that 
 are,  you  know,  four  to  sixt  tall  and  we 
 have  trees  and  we  have  all  kinds  of 
 landscape  elements  like  arbors  that  are 
 all  these  things  are  at  different 
 levels.  When  you're  working  on  your  own 
 Christmas  [music]  lights,  try  to  keep 
 Whoville  in  mind. 
 >> Now,  this  didn't  all  happen  at  once. 
 Please  don't.  No,  no,  no.  We  had  this 
 idea  of  building  a  forest  and  we 
 couldn't  afford  certainly  to  do  it  all 
 in  one  year.  And  so  we  just  took  our 
 time  and  year  1,  year  two,  year  three, 
 here  we  are,  year  five,  and  now  look  at 
 where  we're  at.  We're  a  little  out  of 
 control  now. 
 >> No,  I'll  tell  you  what  though.  Santa's 
 going  to  steal  some  of  these  ideas  for 
 the  North  Pole. 
 >> You  know  what  Santa  wants  for  Christmas? 
 A  new  joke  writer.  That's  what  I  want. 
 [laughter] 
 Oh.  Oh.  We  use  three  types  of  lighting 
 in  our  landscape  designs  every  day.  And 
 you  can  easily  recreate  one  of  them  with 
 Christmas  lights  that  look  great.  We 
 like  path  lights  in  regular  lighting. 
 And  the  Christmas  version  of  path  lights 
 like  this  is  really  striking  and 
 helpful.  You  ever  worry  you  have  too 
 much  eggnog?  Well,  if  you  have  good  path 
 lights,  you  don't  have  to  worry  about  it 
 because  even  in  a  little  tipsy  state, 
 you'll  be  able  to  see  everything  clearly 
 and  walk  right  through  without  falling 
 on  your  face.  So,  this  is  for  safety, 
 but  you  can  combine  beauty  with  safety. 
 If  we  have  nice  path  lights  that  guide 
 the  way,  then  we've  got  a  really 
 important  walkway  and  circulation  that's 
 useful  and  attractive  at  the  same  time. 
 [music] 
 >> Look  at  this  pathway  here.  You  know 
 what?  I  think  that  would  be  a  good  path 
 for  my  head  reindeer  Rudolph.  He  needs 
 some  direction  just  like  I  do  from  Mrs. 
 Claus.  Thank  you  very  much. 
 >> So  this  path  of  lights  in  a  landscape,  I 
 liken  that  to  [music]  guiding  our 
 attention  essentially. 
 >> Definitely.  That's  the  goal.  I  mean,  we 
 want  a  path  so  that  people  know  what  to 
 follow  and  how  to  get  to  the  [music] 
 front  of  the  house  and  that  the  eye  has 
 a  focal  point. 
 >> Oh,  well  that's  exactly  what  we  do  when 
 we're  landscaping.  When  you  design  a 
 Christmas  exhibit,  it's  very  similar  to 
 designing  a  landscape. 
 >> Well,  that  makes  a  lot  of  sense. 
 Although  I  didn't  think  about  that  when 
 I  did  this.  I  just  was  doing  it  a  bit  of 
 design,  but  just 
 >> [music] 
 >> um  trying  to  contain  the  space  and  make 
 it  special  and  especially  for  everybody 
 that's  going  to  come  by  on  Christmas 
 Tree  Lane. 
 >> That's  quite  a  production.  This  is  the 
 closest  we  come  to  snow  in  Fresno.  Up 
 next,  this  house  nailed  the  holiday 
 welcome  without  even  opening  the  front 
 door.  Chip  and  I  like,  in  fact,  we 
 really  like  framing  your  front  door. 
 [music]  And  in  this  case,  they  did  it 
 beautifully  with  two  trees.  Entryways 
 are  really  important  in  landscaping 
 because  [music]  spaces  and  segments  are 
 an  integral  part  of  interesting 
 landscapes,  and  you  always  need  a  good 
 entry  for  [music]  spaces  and  segments. 
 And  the  big  bow  is  uh  icing  on  the  cake 
 or  um  wrapping  [music]  on  the  present  or 
 we  like  the  big  bow. 
 >> Can  I  tell  you  what  I  want  for 
 Christmas? 
 >> Yes,  I  would  really  like  to  know  that. 
 >> Okay.  So,  I  want  you  [music]  to  sprinkle 
 some  philanthropic  dust  all  over  Fresno 
 [music] 
 and  all  over  the  Sanwaqen  Valley  so  that 
 everybody  becomes  generous  this  holiday 
 season  and  gives  back  to  all  of  our 
 nonprofits  that  could  really  use  [music] 
 some  extra  help  this  year.  That  is 
 wonderful. 
 >> I  know  you  can  do  it. 
 >> Oh,  well,  you  know,  I  can  bring  out  some 
 tricks  now  and  then.  You  know,  that  one 
 we  can  all  get  behind,  even  Mrs.  Claus. 
 >> Remember,  I  have  a  hard  time  doing  that. 
 Great  lighting  [music]  is  about  smart 
 design  that  highlights  the  beauty  of 
 your  landscape.  If  you  want  to  learn 
 more  about  our  everyday  landscape 
 design,  check  out  this  [music]  video. 
 Thank  you  for  watching  and  supporting 
 our  channel,  and  happy  holidays  to  all 
 [music]  of  you. 
 >> Merry  Christmas  to  you.  Merry  Christmas.

---

 If  you'd  [music]  like  your  garden  to 
 look  like  this,  but  your  budget  looks 
 like  this,  then  keep  watching.  You  don't 
 need  a  full  expensive  garden  makeover  to 
 make  your  outdoor  spaces  look  amazing. 
 You  just  need  to  know  what's  important 
 to  focus  on.  I'm  going  to  share  some  of 
 my  favorite  landscaping  ideas  [music] 
 that  will  completely  change  your  outdoor 
 spaces. 
 >> [music] 
 >> This  is  Chip  Valentino,  vice  president 
 in  charge  of  DIY  projects  on  a  budget. 
 Okay,  Chip,  hang  out  here.  A  really 
 important  way  a  DIY  [music] 
 person  can  create  a  lowcost  and  yet  very 
 useful  landscape  or  garden  is  by  keeping 
 in  mind  the  most  important  part  of 
 landscape  design.  And  that  is  creating 
 spaces.  It  can  be  something  as  simple  as 
 a  bench  and  a  and  a  seating  area  or  it 
 can  include  a  small  water  feature  of 
 some  type  or  a  fire  pit.  There  can  be  an 
 element  of  it  that  you  have  a  little 
 extra  something  that  helps  you  make  that 
 space  special  or  it  can  just  be  under  a 
 shade  tree.  Think  about  your  landscape, 
 your  front  and  your  backyards  as  a 
 series  of  spaces  or  segments.  These 
 spaces  can  be  very  simple  and 
 inexpensive.  So  you  don't  end  up  with  a 
 real  complicated,  expensive  final 
 product,  but  you  end  up  with  something 
 that  you  use  every  day  and  that's 
 appealing  and  attractive,  not  just 
 something  to  walk  through  to  get  to  your 
 front  door.  This  idea  of  creating  space 
 is  really  what  landscape  architecture 
 and  landscape  design  is  all  about.  And 
 I'd  like  you  to  keep  that  in  mind  as  you 
 plan  your  garden.  And  you  plan  it  even 
 in  a  way  where  you  want  to  do  it  as 
 inexpensively  as  possible.  And  speaking 
 of  defining  space,  nothing  transforms  a 
 garden  more  than  our  next  upgrade,  but 
 you  need  to  know  how  to  use  it  well. 
 Garden  lighting  can  make  your  landscape 
 look  absolutely  dramatic.  And  what  we 
 like  to  do  is  focus  on  lighting  up  two 
 areas.  One  is  wherever  possible  we  want 
 to  light  up  trees  with  interesting 
 branching  and  proper  pruning.  We  like  to 
 have  the  whole  thing  be  ambient  lit  by 
 the  lighting  of  the  trees.  The  second  to 
 focus  on  is  safety  and  utility  which 
 requires  that  you  light  up  the  paths  and 
 the  walkways.  And  so  you  would  use  path 
 lights  for  those  areas.  Another  one  that 
 is  overlooked  a  lot  that  can  be  really 
 effective  is  I  like  to  use  a  wash  light 
 which  is  like  a  background  light  where 
 you'll  wash  it  across  an  expanse  either 
 of  shrubbery  or  a  fence  with  espales  on 
 it.  When  you  use  an  uplight  on  a  tree 
 you're  focused  on  that  one  tree  but  when 
 you  use  wash  lighting  you're  focused  on 
 10  15  20  feet  of  whatever  is  there. 
 Planting  something  interesting 
 architecturally.  Those  are  the  three 
 main  types  of  lighting  that  we're 
 thinking  about.  And  in  order  to  do  it 
 yourself  and  do  it  at  a  cost  savings, 
 there's  a  few  things  you  can  do.  One 
 that  we  do  a  lot,  lighting  can  be 
 expensive,  but  the  wire  of  the  lighting, 
 which  is  a  direct  burial,  not  required. 
 If  you  don't  want  to  to  put  it  in 
 conduit  or  anything,  you  can  run  the 
 wire  anytime.  We  like  to  run  it  when 
 we're  doing  the  irrigation.  So,  you 
 could  put  in  the  whole  system  without 
 the  lights  for  very  little  money.  and 
 then  a  year  or  two  later,  you  put  in  the 
 lights.  Or  maybe  you  come  back  and  do 
 one  or  two  lights  at  a  time  as  you  can 
 afford  to  buy  them.  Another  way  you're 
 saving  money  by  picking  the  right  kinds 
 of  lights  is  use  a  light  with  an  LED 
 bulb.  They  use  way  less  electricity  and 
 they  make  the  process  of  putting  in  the 
 system  so  much  easier  because  you 
 usually  don't  have  to  do  a  lot  of 
 calculations  like  we  used  to  have  to  do 
 25  years  ago.  With  LED  bulbs,  you  can 
 almost  just  run  one  wire.  Lighting  only 
 does  its  job  if  [music]  the  plants 
 really  look  good.  Here's  where  most 
 people  waste  a  lot  of  money  without 
 knowing  it.  Most  people  want  it  to  look 
 fullrown  and  mature  right  from  the 
 start,  but  that  is  very  expensive,  and 
 that  also  isn't  in  the  best  interest  of 
 the  plants.  The  plants  do  best  when  you 
 start  them  out  in  small  sizes.  This  is 
 really  a  big  area  of  savings  is  the  size 
 of  the  plants.  There's  some  plants  that 
 just  don't  make  sense  to  plant  anything 
 other  than  a  onegon.  If  you're  planting 
 a  boxwood  hedge,  you  know,  the  whole 
 boxwood  hedge  even  when  you  get  it  up  is 
 going  to  be  what  this  tall,  why  would 
 you  want  to  use  a  5gallon  plant  that 
 gives  you  the  edge  of  6  in  or  so?  And  a 
 5gallon  boxwood  is  probably  going  to 
 cost  you  $30.  And  a  onegon  plant  is 
 going  to  cost  you  $102.  So  if  you  have 
 50  of  them,  you  know,  that's  a  $1,000 
 difference.  In  trees,  a  lot  of  people 
 want  a  big  mature  looking  tree.  If  you 
 get  up  to  standard  size  15gallon  tree, 
 that's  the  size  of  the  container. 
 They're  usually  going  to  be  7t  tall  and 
 2  or  3  feet  wide  on  the  top  and  that's 
 going  to  cost  80  $85  usually.  But  there 
 are  a  lot  of  trees  that  you  can  buy 
 bigger  than  15  gallon  and  that's  when 
 the  price  just  soarses.  The  least 
 expensive  tree  if  you  can  find  it  in  a 
 small  size  makes  a  lot  of  sense.  Usually 
 you  can  get  to  the  next  size  in  about 
 one  year  in  the  ground.  In  keeping  with 
 this  idea  of  patience,  the  most  cost 
 effective  way  to  use  our  products  is 
 with  our  soil  optimizer  or  optimize.  and 
 you  can  use  it  on  your  plants  even  this 
 time  of  the  year.  Optimize  is  a  patient 
 approach  to  fertilizing  your  soil. 
 Optimize  is  inexpensive  because  you  need 
 very  little  to  treat  large  areas.  In 
 fact,  our  three-lb  bag  will  treat  1,000 
 square  ft  as  opposed  to  trying  to  do  it 
 with  compost  or  something  that's  in  a 
 bulk.  Now,  let's  talk  about  your  lawn 
 [music]  because  this  next  one  can  not 
 only  save  you  a  huge  amount  of  money, 
 but  it  will  look  just  as  good.  Another 
 way  to  save  money  with  your  lawn  is  to 
 seed  the  lawn  rather  than  saw  the  lawn. 
 Most  people  want  to  saw  the  lawn  because 
 it  gives  them  this  instant  effect.  But 
 if  you  pick  the  right  time,  you  can 
 recreate  that  look  or  catch  up  to  that 
 look  in  just  4  weeks  if  if  you  do 
 everything  right.  If  we  were  to  do  1,000 
 square  feet  of  saw  and  you  want  to  use 
 our  Optimize  as  a  soil  conditioner  and 
 you're  going  to  do  all  the  work 
 yourself,  you've  got  about  $800  of  cost. 
 And  obviously  the  day  you  lay  that  saw, 
 it'll  look  fantastic.  If  you  use  seed, 
 you've  only  got  about  $100  of  cost 
 because  you're  doing  all  the  labor 
 yourself.  So  we're  not  taking  into 
 account  any  labor  here  at  all.  So, 
 that's  a  dramatic  savings  of  just  the 
 cost  of  doing  saw  versus  seed.  This  next 
 one  might  be  controversial.  [music] 
 Many  people  think  it  saves  time  and 
 makes  your  garden  look  better,  but  it 
 actually  creates  more  work  and  may  cause 
 your  plants  to  underperform.  I  don't 
 really  like  landscape  fabric  around 
 plants.  I'd  like  you  to  consider  using 
 mulch  instead  of  landscape  fabric.  If 
 you  continue  to  remulch,  you  will  go  a 
 long  ways  toward  producing  really 
 active,  microbiologically  healthy  soil. 
 And  that's  the  key  to  a  healthy 
 landscape  and  a  healthy  garden.  The 
 other  thing  you  can  consider  once  you're 
 focused  on  using  mulch  is  to  use  it  in 
 smaller  thicknesses.  And  it's  amazing 
 how  much  this  can  save  you.  Over  1,000 
 square  ft.  If  you  were  to  put  2  in  thick 
 of  mulch,  you  would  have  to  use  about 
 six  cubic  yards.  If  you  have  it 
 delivered  to  your  house,  it's  going  to 
 cost  you  about  $600.  If  you  take  it  down 
 to  one  in,  I'm  just  going  to  make  sure 
 to  replenish  it  once  a  year.  You're  down 
 to  $300  for  half  the  amount  of  mulch. 
 One  of  the  easiest  ways  to  save  time  and 
 money  is  [music]  to  subscribe  to  our 
 channel.  Do  you  want  that  expensive 
 landscape  aesthetic?  This  next  idea 
 gives  you  a  huge  visual  upgrade  with  the 
 most  coste  effective  and  eco-friendly 
 option.  Circulation  is  one  way  to  make 
 your  landscape  look  a  lot  more  opulent. 
 Easy  to  do  and  not  expensive,  especially 
 if  you  use  some  of  these  ideas  that  we 
 use,  such  as  a  gravel  path  with  edging 
 that  is  really  good  for  the 
 do-it-yourselfer.  We  use  a  little  bit  of 
 decomposed  granite  and  then  we  use  some 
 kind  of  gravel  on  top  and  usually  a 
 vibratory  compactor  to  press  it  into 
 that  DG.  It's  kind  of  a  nice  separation 
 technique  to  define  uses  in  your  garden 
 and  doing  it  without  spending  a  lot  of 
 money  and  doing  it  in  a  way  that  you  can 
 do  yourself.  Now,  this  last  one  is  one 
 that  [music]  many  people  spend  thousands 
 of  dollars  on  replacing,  but  you  often 
 don't  need  to.  With  a  simple  mindset 
 shift,  you  can  repurpose  what  you 
 already  have  and  save  a  ton  of  money. 
 When  I  talk  to  homeowners,  they're  more 
 willing  than  they  should  be  to 
 completely  replace  their  fence.  They 
 recognize  it's  ugly  and  it's  falling 
 apart  and  they  seem  to  think,  "Let's  rip 
 it  out  and  start  over."  And  that  is  an 
 option.  But  on  a  lot  of  situations, 
 we've  been  able  to  save  people  a  lot  of 
 money  by  just  reinforcing  the  posts  in 
 the  fence.  sometimes  replacing  a  couple 
 of  pickets.  But  the  main  idea  is  to  make 
 it  strong  and  straight.  And  we  can  do 
 that  without  replacing  the  whole  thing. 
 If  we  just  reinforce  each  4x4  post  with 
 a  new  4x4  pressuret  treated  that  comes 
 up  and  finishes  a  little  bit  above 
 grade,  it's  amazing  how  with  very  little 
 money,  we  can  completely  renovate  an 
 existing  fence.  So,  if  you  have  100  ft 
 at  $30  a  linear  foot,  you're  spending 
 $3,000  to  put  in  a  new  fence  and  take 
 out  the  old  one.  If  you  just  buy  new 
 posts,  pressuret  treated  posts,  and  use 
 this  method  that  we're  showing  you  here, 
 you  can  do  it  for  $500. 
 All  right,  bonus  time.  I'm  going  to  name 
 some  of  the  quickest  and  most 
 inexpensive  upgrades  to  make  your  garden 
 feel  finished,  polished,  and  a  perfect 
 place  to  host  your  friends  and  family. 
 So,  our  first  one  is  a  little  fire 
 feature,  which  you  can  put  in  intimate 
 spaces  around  the  garden,  or  in  this 
 case,  you  can  put  it  so  you  you  can  see 
 it  from  inside  the  house.  We  originally 
 got  the  idea  because  we  had  a  candle  out 
 here  and  then  we  thought,  well,  a  little 
 fire  feature  would  be  even  a  little 
 neater  and  this  is  inexpensive.  It's 
 like  having  a  miniature  fire  pit.  The 
 sound  of  water  in  a  landscape  is 
 amazing.  A  great  addition.  And  my  next 
 one  ties  into  this.  It's  small  little 
 water  features.  So,  there  are  a  lot  of 
 neat  little  water  features.  And  they 
 come  in  many  different  shapes  and  sizes. 
 And  the  neat  thing  about  them  is  they 
 look  good,  but  they  sound  good.  Rather 
 than  building  a  big  waterfall,  you  can 
 have  a  miniature  little  waterfall  that 
 reminds  you  of  a  big  waterfall. 
 Strategically  placed  vines  are  a  great 
 addition  to  the  garden,  which  can  add 
 color  in  the  form  of  bloom,  interest  in 
 the  pattern  it  makes  on  a  wall,  and 
 privacy.  The  vine  can  either  screen  uh 
 noise  or  screen  views  that  are 
 undesirable.  And  in  that  way,  vines  can 
 be  another  part  of  creating  these 
 separate  spaces  inexpensively.  Colored 
 pots  are  another  neat  idea  that  we're 
 stealing  from  Eddie  the  lazy  landscaper. 
 He  is  lazy,  but  he  can  be  clever,  too. 
 And  that  addition  of  colored  pots  of  all 
 different  shapes  and  sizes  and  colors  is 
 a  really  neat  way  to  add  color  to  your 
 garden.  And  then  you  can  contrast  that 
 with  some  kind  of  color  inside  the  pot. 
 And  the  combination  can  be  striking, 
 good  for  small  spaces,  and  not  terribly 
 expensive.  If  you  love  these  budget 
 friendly  upgrades,  you  will  want  to 
 watch  my  video  on  the  top  landscape 
 mistakes  to  avoid.  Avoiding  these 
 mistakes  can  help  you  save  money,  time, 
 and  heartache.

---

 These  are  the  most  popular  types  of 
 mulch  for  any  garden.  And  today  I  will 
 tell  you  which  ones  will  work  great 
 [music]  and  which  ones  you  should  avoid. 
 But  I  can't  do  it  alone.  So  I  went  to  my 
 friend  Eddie  the  lazy  landscaper  to  show 
 you  around  his  garden.  And  at  the  end 
 I'll  reveal  the  most  common  mulch 
 [music]  mistakes  that  everyone  should 
 avoid. 
 Mulch  is  one  of  the  easiest  ways  to 
 level  up  your  garden  and  improve  plant 
 health.  Let's  break  down  exactly  what 
 good  mulch  does  and  why  it  matters.  So, 
 Ed,  you  recently  updated  the  mulch  in 
 your  garden.  What  do  you  find  are  the 
 key  benefits  to  that? 
 >> Well,  I'll  tell  you  what,  it  it 
 certainly  helps  with  weed  suppression. 
 >> It's  fantastic  with  weed  suppression, 
 but  I  think  underappreciated  for  that 
 because  a  lot  of  times  what  happens  is 
 people  have  a  weed  problem  and  they  put 
 mulch  on  and  the  weeds  come  right 
 through  it  and  they  say,  "Well,  it 
 didn't  work."  Well,  it's  not  quite  that 
 simple,  right?  But  you  have  to  keep 
 working  with  it.  Keep  applying  mulch  as 
 some  sprout  here  and  there.  We  get  rid 
 of  them.  So,  it's  kind  of  working  with 
 your  landscape  and  training  it.  I  like 
 to  say  training  it  to  not  have  weeds. 
 And  that  mulch  can  be  an  important  part 
 of  the  training  process.  You  want  to 
 maintain  that  layer  of  mulch,  you  know, 
 between  one  and  two  inches  thick  all  the 
 time.  With  that  method,  I  think  you  can 
 create  a  landscape  like  you  have  where 
 you  just  almost  don't  get  weeds. 
 >> I  like  to  use  two  to  three  inches  of 
 mulch.  Of  course,  the  real  question  is 
 how  mulch  is  too  mulch? 
 >> That  is  an  important  question. 
 >> I  can  run  that  by  you  again  if  you  need 
 me  to,  Johnny.  I  just  it  was  a  bad  it 
 was  a  bad  pun.  It  helps  during  the 
 winter  now  as  we're  getting  into  the 
 colder  weather  with,  you  know,  just 
 keeping  the  soil  a  little  warmer  and 
 reasonable  temperature,  especially  for 
 tropical  and  subtropical  plants.  The 
 other  thing  about  the  mulch  in  the 
 summer  gets  up  in  a  100  degree  weather. 
 By  having  that  mulch,  it  helps  to  keep 
 the  soil  a  little  cooler  and  it  also 
 stops  the  water  from  evaporating.  So,  we 
 don't  have  to  water  as  much,  which  in  a 
 drought  area,  that's  very  beneficial. 
 >> You  are  absolutely  right,  Eddie  the  lazy 
 landscaper.  My  [laughter] 
 >> my  goodness.  I  I  haven't  heard  that 
 since  well  before  I  was  married. 
 [laughter] 
 So,  it  is  great  at  retaining  moisture 
 and  making  it  so  you  have  to  water  a  lot 
 less.  The  other  thing  it  does  related  to 
 moisture  that's  a  little 
 underappreciated  is  when  you  have  bare 
 soil  and  you  just  leave  it  open  to  the 
 elements  like  rain  pounding  on  it  and 
 maybe  even  hail  pounding  on  it.  It's  not 
 good  for  the  soil.  If  you  protect  it 
 with  a  mulch,  when  that  rain  hits  it, 
 it's  protecting  the  soil  physically.  And 
 uh  one  of  the  reasons  that  most 
 landscape  professionals  and  homeowners 
 use  it  is  because  of  its  appearance. 
 It's  it's  beautiful  and  it  looks  way 
 better  than  your  soil  usually.  From  fine 
 dark  mulch  to  coarse  shredded  cedar. 
 Let's  compare  [music]  how  the  different 
 mulch  options  stack  up  against  each 
 other.  So  on  my  far  right  is  black 
 forest  humus.  And  this  is  very  popular. 
 It's  what  Eddie  the  lazy  landscaper  was 
 using  before  we  put  coarser  mulch  on 
 top.  It  makes  a  really  attractive  top 
 dress  mulch,  but  the  problem  with  it  is 
 it  doesn't  stay  put  and  we  stopped  using 
 it  because  of  that.  Essentially  the  same 
 thing  but  a  dark  brownish  red  humus. 
 They're  both  made  from  similar  products. 
 They're  the  bark  of  Douglas  fur.  And 
 this  one  has  the  same  problems  in  that 
 some  people  use  it  as  a  top  dress  mulch, 
 but  it  just  doesn't  stay  put.  Then  next 
 to  that  is  a  really  good  product  in 
 terms  of  cost.  It's  the  least  expensive 
 of  all  six  of  these.  It's  called  arbor 
 mulch.  We  have  it  in  this  area  because 
 it  tends  to  be  agricultural  trees  that 
 have  been  removed  and  cut  up.  And  so 
 it's  really  inexpensive.  Works  good  as  a 
 mulch.  It  does  stay  put  pretty  well,  but 
 it's  just  not  as  attractive.  So,  right 
 next  to  the  arbor  mulch  is  cedar  mulch. 
 Now,  I  order  a  special  cedar  mulch  that 
 is  fine  cedar  mulch,  and  they  get  that 
 by  grinding  it  more  than  one  time.  You 
 can  get  cedar  mulch  that's  really 
 coarse,  even  coarser  than  this  one  on 
 the  end.  When  you  have  this  cedar  mulch 
 that's  finely  ground,  it's  really  nice 
 looking  and  it  has  this  kind  of  fibrous 
 nature  to  it  and  it  it  knits  together 
 and  stays  put  really  well.  After  uh  this 
 arbor  mulch,  it's  the  second  least 
 expensive.  And  then  next  to  the  fine 
 cedar  mulch  is  the  one  we  used  in  Eddie 
 the  lazy  landscaper  yard,  dark  walk-on 
 supreme,  and  it  comes  out  of  Long  View, 
 Washington.  It's  the  bark  of  Douglas  fur 
 and  pine.  He  wanted  something  that  was 
 coarse  but  kind  of  looked  like  the  dark 
 humus  which  he  already  had  because  he 
 likes  that  color.  This  is  our  best  one 
 for  that  and  it's  still  pretty  coarse. 
 Next  to  the  dark  walk-on  supreme  is 
 regular  walk-on  bark  which  has  kind  of 
 been  a  staple  of  the  landscape  industry 
 made  from  Douglas  fur  and  pine  also.  And 
 you  can  see  it's  pretty  coarse. 
 Obviously,  it  stays  put  very  well.  From 
 that  standpoint,  it's  good.  I  think  the 
 only  thing  I  don't  like  about  it  is  its 
 appearance.  It's  not  one  of  the  more 
 attractive  ones.  So,  I  use  dark  walk-on 
 supreme  or  fine  shredded  cedar.  Those 
 two  are  my  first  choices.  And  then 
 third,  I'll  use  the  arbor  mulch.  And 
 then  fourth,  I'd  use  the  Wagon  bark.  And 
 then  fifth  and  sixth,  the  very  fine 
 forcehumus  products  which  are  beautiful 
 to  look  at  but  transient  in  that  they 
 move  around  right  off  of  your  yard 
 almost  as  soon  as  you  put  them  on.  Maybe 
 you've  heard  that  mulch  can  steal 
 nutrients  from  your  plants.  But  is  that 
 really  true  or  just  another  garden  myth? 
 Let's  dig  in  to  what's  really  happening 
 in  your  soil  when  you  use  mulch.  There's 
 a  lot  of  garden  myths  and  all  you  got  to 
 do  is  listen  to  your  neighbors  and 
 you'll  hear  all  kinds  of  garden  myths.  I 
 I  think  it's  hidden  myth.  I  really  do.  I 
 This  current  garden  myth  that  I'd  like 
 to  dispel  today  is  that  when  you  use 
 mulch,  it  takes  away  from  the  nutrients 
 for  your  plants.  Although  there  is  a 
 little  bit  of  truth  to  it,  which  is  why 
 I  think  it  hangs  around.  This  organic 
 matter  that  we  use  as  top  dressing  mulch 
 starts  to  break  down,  it  does  need  and 
 use  some  nitrogen  and  microbes  as  part 
 of  the  process.  So,  some  people  say, 
 "Well,  it's  taking  nitrogen  from  the 
 soil,  nitrogen  that  your  plants  need." 
 But  the  truth  is  that  it's  only  using 
 nitrogen  on  the  very  surface,  and  your 
 plants  have  roots  that  are  way  deeper 
 than  the  surface.  It  doesn't  impact  the 
 nutrients  in  the  soil  where  your  roots 
 are.  If  you're  using  good  gardening 
 techniques,  you're  probably  replenishing 
 nitrogen  to  some  degree.  If  you're  using 
 our  products,  there  is  a  little  bit  of 
 organic  nitrogen  in  it.  There's  not  a 
 problem  at  all  when  you  use  it  as  a  top 
 dress  mulch,  as  a  surface  mulch. 
 >> And  by  protecting  the  living  organisms 
 below  down  where  the  roots  are  and  the 
 microisa,  for  instance,  is  helping 
 absorb  nutrients.  I  mean,  it's  not  like 
 the  plant's  going  to  use  every  bit  of 
 nitrogen  anyway. 
 >> And  so,  this  idea  that  we're  depleting 
 soil  of  nitrogen  just  isn't  valid.  Where 
 it  could  be  a  concern  is  if  you  took  say 
 a  coarse  top  dress  mulch  and  you  tilled 
 it  in.  Now  you  have  all  of  this  wood 
 with  some  bulk  to  it  and  some  substance 
 to  it  kind  of  tilled  in  and  that  does 
 need  nitrogen  to  decompose.  Then  it 
 might  take  an  amount  of  nitrogen  that 
 makes  a  little  bit  of  a  problem. 
 >> I  mean  I  was  in  favor  of  using  that  dark 
 mulch  that  just  blows  away.  I  don't  I 
 don't  remember  that. 
 >> No.  I've  been  a  believer  for  a  long  time 
 and  and  I  like  the  looks  of  it  even 
 though  it  can  be  blown  away  by  the 
 gardeners,  but  the  dark  fine  dark  forest 
 humus.  Then  again,  my  memor  is  failing 
 me.  So,  it  could  be 
 >> I  really  had  some  problems  with  the  dark 
 fine  forest  humus  I  was  using  for  all 
 these  years.  It  looked  great  for  about 
 the  first  oh  30  minutes.  Still  had  the 
 weed  problems.  So,  I  really  wasn't 
 satisfying  anything  that  I  wanted  to. 
 Let's  go  take  a  look  at  what  John's  crew 
 has  done.  It's  really  fantastic.  So,  I 
 had  some  problems  here  before  John's 
 crew  came  in.  One  of  them  was  I'd 
 already  had  these  rocks  put  down  and 
 they  were  starting  to  scatter  into  the 
 hedge  there,  the  fatini  hedge,  and  I 
 really  wanted  some  separation  so  that  I 
 could  put  down  some  quality  mulch  that 
 John  had  told  me  about.  Previous  to 
 that,  I  had  some  dark  forest  humus  in 
 there,  but  it  was  scattered  and  blown 
 away.  I  was  still  having  weed  problems. 
 I  had  the  scattered  rocks.  It  just 
 didn't  look  clean.  His  crew  came  in  and 
 they  did  a  beautiful  edging  along  the 
 way  there.  So,  while  the  crew  was  doing 
 a  great  job  with  this  straight  edge,  I 
 didn't  realize  they  could  do  this.  But 
 with  this  flexible  edging,  they  were 
 able  to  actually  make  a  perfect  circle 
 around  here  with  my  tree  lights  being 
 outside  of  it  and  just  high  enough  that 
 it  still  kept  all  the  rocks  out  and 
 allowed  for  this  uh  mulch  to  really 
 really  do  a  great  job  here  around  the 
 tree  and  look  good.  It  really  has 
 achieved  a  lot  of  things  that  I'm  so 
 pleased  with.  Instead  of  the  humus 
 blowing  away  with  this  mulch,  I'm  blown 
 away.  Now  you  know  why  mulch  matters  and 
 which  types  are  best.  But  there  are 
 still  some  classic  mistakes  that  can 
 cause  all  kinds  of  trouble  in  your 
 garden.  Here  are  the  mulching  mistakes 
 to  avoid  at  all  costs.  One  of  the 
 biggest  mistakes  in  my  opinion  is  that 
 ugly,  stupid,  toxic  dyed  mulch  that  you 
 see  people  use,  sometimes  reddish, 
 sometimes  black,  where  they  take  a  plain 
 brown  wood  product  that  they  think 
 doesn't  have  enough  coloring  and  they 
 dye  it.  It's  not  a  good  idea.  It's  not 
 good  for  your  plants.  It's  not  good  for 
 your  soil.  And  in  my  opinion,  apparently 
 not  everyone  agrees,  but  in  my  opinion, 
 it  looks  ugly. 
 >> Well,  yeah.  I  mean,  that's  why  I  don't 
 dye  my  hair  as  often  anymore.  I  still  a 
 little  bit.  Another  mistake  is  to  not 
 pile  it  around  the  base  of  the  plants. 
 If  you  you  were  saying  you  like  to  put 
 it  thick  in  your  yard,  which  nothing 
 wrong  with  that.  I  I  like  to  just  do  it 
 one  to  two  inches,  but  I  don't  want  two 
 inches  right  up  against  the  trunk  of  the 
 shrubs  and  the  trees.  We  [snorts]  want 
 as  we  get  into  the  area  where  the  actual 
 uh  stems  and  trunks  are,  then  we  kind  of 
 go  down  to  just  a  quarter  of  an  inch  or 
 something.  Another  thing  that  you  need 
 to  do  is  you  have  to  reapply  every  year 
 or  two.  Depends  on  the  style  of  your 
 garden,  too.  You  might  have  a  style  of 
 garden  with  a  lot  of  ground  cover  and  a 
 lot  of  plants  where  you  you  hardly  need 
 any  mulch  over  time  because  it's  covered 
 with  plants.  But  if  you  can  see  bare 
 soil,  then  you  need  to  reapply  mulch.  If 
 you  had  this  terrible  soil  and  you  said 
 you  had  three  or  four  years  to  improve 
 it,  but  you  could  only  do  one  thing,  I 
 would  say  cover  it  with  two  to  three 
 inches  of  mulch  and  do  nothing  else.  If 
 you  could  do  two  things,  I'd  say  put  our 
 products  under  the  mulch.  But  if  you 
 could  only  do  one  thing,  put  mulch  over 
 the  top  of  lousy  soil  and  that  will 
 improve  tilt  and  soil  structure  in  kind 
 of  miraculous  ways  over  time. 
 >> Did  I  tell  you  how  Sandy  Lom  broke  up 
 with  me? 
 >> No.  She  sent  me  a  John  Deere  letter.  It 
 [laughter]  was  just  it  was  terrible.  I  I 
 just  I  I  Mulch  is  just  one  piece  of  the 
 puzzle.  If  you  want  your  garden  to 
 thrive  and  not  just  survive,  check  out 
 this  video  where  we  teach  you  the 
 importance  of  healthy  soil  and  how  to 
 infuse  your  soil  with  life  the  lazy  way. 
 [music]

---

 Do  you  want  a  garden  that's  stunning  and 
 also  good  for  our  planet?  These  six 
 eco-friendly  landscape  ideas  work  in  any 
 yard,  whether  big  or  small,  and  they'll 
 save  you  time  on  maintenance  while 
 making  your  plants  healthier,  too.  Let's 
 dig  in.  Almost  every  type  of  landscape 
 has  some  type  of  paving  or  walkway,  but 
 the  typical  kinds  like  brick,  concrete, 
 asphalt  cause  major  problems  with  your 
 storm  water  management.  These  two 
 surface  styles  address  the  problem  while 
 looking  very  attractive.  The  issues  of 
 imperous  paving  in  our  landscape  and 
 environment  is  a  major  issue  right  now 
 in  design  and  everyone  is  looking  for 
 ways  of  putting  in  paving  that's  pvious. 
 There's  a  lot  of  demand  for  that.  And 
 the  reason  they  want  pvious  paving  is 
 that  it  minimizes  the  need  for  big 
 drainage  basins  and  swailes  and  concrete 
 curbs.  Non-pervious  or  imperous  paving 
 is  paving  like  concrete  that  where  the 
 water  just  runs  off  and  goes  into  some 
 kind  of  storm  water  system  of  collecting 
 and  treating  water.  Pervious  means  that 
 it'll  filter  right  through  the  paving. 
 As  it's  going  through  the  paving,  it 
 mixes  with  microbes  and  these  products 
 that  are  pvious  to  actually  filter  the 
 water  and  as  it  gets  into  the 
 groundwater,  it's  clean  water.  One  very 
 common  one  that  we've  shown  you  in  other 
 videos  is  our  simple  garden  paths  idea 
 where  we  use  decomposed  granite  on  top 
 of  base  rock  and  then  we  cap  it  with  a 
 thin  layer  of  like  3/8  inch  rock  use  a 
 vibratory  compactor  to  press  it  into  the 
 DG  and  the  result  there  is  a  pvious  rock 
 path  that's  very  environmentally 
 friendly.  Another  way  to  approach  that, 
 we  use  this  unique  grout  in  between  the 
 flag  stone  called  perk  grout.  I'm 
 standing  right  now  on  the  perk  grout. 
 Let's  take  a  closer  look.  So,  it  doesn't 
 have  sand  in  it.  And  because  it  doesn't 
 have  sand  in  it,  it  has  a  lot  of  pores 
 in  it.  So,  it's  a  rough  finish,  and 
 that's  necessary  for  it  to  be  uh  pvious. 
 And  yet,  as  you  can  see,  it's  very  firm 
 and  hard  like  concrete.  Even  Toby  u 
 appreciates  it.  If  you  don't  believe  me, 
 let's  test  it  with  some  water.  Let's  see 
 if  it  goes  right  through.  Wow,  look  at 
 that.  This  isn't  even  puddling. 
 Look  at  that.  Just  goes  right  through 
 it. 
 Another  surface  in  landscapes  and 
 gardens  are  wood  decks,  and  they 
 actually  are  quite  ecologically 
 problematic.  Here's  what  we  can  use 
 instead.  Two  brands  of  products  that  can 
 be  used  on  decks  are  TX  and  Timberline. 
 Probably  the  two  most  popular.  95%  of 
 the  product  is  made  from  recycled 
 material.  Lots  of  plastic  bags  go  into 
 the  manufacturer  of  TX  and  Timberline, 
 which  is  neat  because  you  know  how 
 throwing  away  plastic  bags  is  a  problem. 
 There's  actually  a  good  use  for  it.  And 
 combined  with  wood  scraps,  a  product  is 
 made  that  replaces  wood.  And  wood 
 obviously  is  a  precious  resource.  And 
 also  wood  rots.  Trex  and  timberline 
 don't  rot.  And  also  wood  requires 
 refinishing  or  painting  or  sealing, 
 which  is  also  with  a  lot  of  products 
 that  aren't  environmentally  friendly.  So 
 TX  is  made  from  recycled  products.  It's 
 durable,  it's  strong,  it  lasts  much 
 longer  than  wood,  and  it  doesn't  require 
 refinishing  every  couple  of  years.  The 
 next  thing  is  a  layer  you  can  add  to 
 your  garden  which  will  completely  change 
 the  way  it  grows  in  a  positive  way.  I 
 will  tell  you  exactly  where  and  how  to 
 use  it.  Frequently  overlooked  is  the 
 importance  of  top  dressing  mulch.  It's 
 actually  a  mini  miracle.  What  top 
 dressing  mulch  does  for  your  soil  is 
 protect  it.  It  also  allows  it  to  break 
 down  and  enrich  it.  It  also  conserves 
 moisture.  And  all  of  these  things  go 
 into  making  it  ecologically  positive  and 
 an  important  part  of  growing  an 
 environmentally  friendly  landscape  and 
 garden.  This  is  not  necessarily 
 something  that  you  can  just  do  one  time. 
 You  need  to  refresh  it  and  renew  it 
 every  few  years.  It's  important  in  terms 
 of  the  health  of  your  soil  and  the 
 health  of  everything  you're  growing  in 
 your  garden.  Another  big  benefit  of  it 
 is  weed  suppression.  It's  incredibly 
 effective  minimizing  the  need  for  any 
 kinds  of  chemicals  and  such.  And  if  you 
 train  your  yard  that  way  over  time,  you 
 can  end  up  with  a  well-trained  yard  that 
 doesn't  have  weeds,  that  has  healthy 
 soil,  that  doesn't  need  a  lot  of  water 
 just  because  of  the  benefits  of  that  top 
 dress  mulch.  If  your  plants  are 
 struggling  and  maybe  sick,  the  problem 
 might  not  be  what  you  can  see,  but 
 what's  happening  underneath.  Here's  what 
 most  soil  is  missing  and  how  to 
 sustainably  fix  it.  Nothing  is  more 
 important  environmentally  in  a  garden 
 landscape  than  the  health  of  your  soil. 
 Healthy  soil  is  determined  by  life  in 
 the  soil.  And  you  need  beneficial 
 bacteria,  beneficial  fungi,  good 
 prozzoa,  good  neatodes.  All  of  those  are 
 what  makes  your  soil  not  only  properly 
 feed  your  plants,  but  also  make  it  so 
 your  plants  don't  get  pests  and 
 diseases.  when  they  get  pests  and 
 diseases,  you  usually  respond  with 
 something  that  isn't  environmentally 
 friendly,  pesticides  and  such,  and  those 
 are  at  the  very  bottom  of  the  list  of 
 what  we  want  to  be  doing  in  our  garden. 
 From  an  environmental  standpoint, 
 another  big  advantage  is  healthy  soil  is 
 a  carbon  sink.  It  doesn't  work  as  a 
 carbon  sink  if  the  soil  isn't  alive  with 
 all  the  beneficial  microbes  that  we  need 
 in  your  landscape  in  order  for  your 
 plants  to  do  their  best.  Also,  the  best 
 way  to  make  sure  your  soil  has 
 beneficial  life  is  with  products  like 
 compost  and  earthworm  castings  or  are 
 concentrated  products  which  are 
 formulated  specifically  for  this 
 purpose.  We  want  soil  that's 
 environmentally  friendly,  ecologically 
 positive,  and  that  allows  you  to  garden 
 without  having  to  use  chemicals. 
 Everyone  mows  their  lawn,  but  almost 
 nobody  does  it  like  this.  It's  faster, 
 greener,  and  it  gives  your  soil  and  your 
 lawn  a  big  boost.  And  that's  mulching 
 mowing.  Many,  many  mowers  have  that 
 mechanism  that  you  can  do  mulching 
 mowing  instead  of  mowing  and  collecting 
 the  grass  and  throwing  it  away.  This 
 way,  if  you're  using  a  mulching  mower, 
 you're  fertilizing  your  lawn  at  the  same 
 time  you're  mowing  it,  you're 
 fertilizing  your  soil  at  the  same  time 
 you're  mowing  it.  It's  kind  of  like 
 buying  our  products,  except  you  don't 
 have  to  buy  anything.  All  you  have  to  do 
 is  something  you  were  going  to  do 
 anyway,  and  that's  mow  your  lawn,  but 
 with  a  mulching  mower.  If  you're 
 unfamiliar  with  a  mulching  mower,  what 
 it  does  is  it  more  finely  cuts  up  the 
 lawn  so  that  it's  like  a  mulch.  You 
 don't  have  a  bag  or  anything.  There's 
 nothing  you  collect.  It  cuts  the  uh 
 grass  up  and  in  place  as  it's  mowing  it, 
 it  drops  it  right  back  down  onto  your 
 lawn.  What  you're  after  is  never  cutting 
 off  more  than  onethird  of  the  blade  of 
 the  height  of  the  blade.  So,  if  you  keep 
 your  lawn  3  in,  you  would  never  cut  off 
 more  than  1  in.  And  when  you're  cutting 
 off  less  than  1/3  of  the  total  length  of 
 the  blade,  that's  much  easier  to  mulch 
 because  this  mulching  mower  kind  of  cuts 
 it  up  into  a  product  that  decomposes 
 quickly  and  goes  back  into  the  soil.  And 
 there's  not  a  better  way  to  begin  on  the 
 process  of  building  the  soil  in  your 
 lawn  by  doing  mulching,  mowing.  Many 
 people  have  irrigation  systems  to  water 
 their  lawn  and  plants,  but  a  lot  of 
 these  systems  are  outdated,  inefficient, 
 and  unreliable.  Here's  how  to  make  sure 
 your  system  is  environmentally  and 
 ecologically  friendly.  So  the  first 
 thing  that's  a  big  part  of  an 
 echofriendly  irrigation  system  is  to  not 
 waste  water.  And  one  of  the  most 
 effective  systems  at  doing  that  is  a 
 drip  system  that  delivers  water  right  to 
 the  plant  and  doesn't  throw  water 
 everywhere  and  delivers  it  slowly  so  it 
 can  sink  in  and  not  evaporate,  which  is 
 what  happens  when  we  apply  a  lot  of 
 water  quickly.  it  makes  a  puddle  and 
 doesn't  even  ever  get  into  the  soil. 
 Secondly,  we  want  that  system  to  be  very 
 reliable  and  not  break.  When  it  breaks, 
 it  usually  wastes  water.  And  there's 
 ways  to  make  sure  it  does  that.  We  also 
 want  it  to  apply  water  evenly  and  be 
 able  to  control  the  water  so  that  you 
 don't  put  more  water  than  you  need  on 
 the  north  side  and  at  the  same  time 
 you're  applying  it  to  the  west  side  of 
 your  house.  So  you  need  to  separate  your 
 valve  so  that  you  can  apply  it  just  what 
 you  need.  A  mechanism  to  make  sure  that 
 you  apply  water  as  needed.  Many  have 
 come  on  the  market  recently.  I  like  the 
 ones  connected  to  weather  data.  So  it 
 analyzes  your  local  weather  and  based  on 
 the  kind  of  weather  you're  having.  If 
 it's  raining,  your  system  turns  off 
 automatically.  And  if  it's  100°,  you're 
 watering  more.  All  the  major 
 manufacturers  make  products  like  that. 
 Hunter,  Rainbird,  Toro.  There's  also 
 products  made  to  connect  your  system  to 
 soil  sensors.  I'm  less  fond  of  soil 
 sensors.  To  me,  they're  more  complicated 
 to  install  and  to  use,  but  it  is  a  way 
 to  have  a  system  that's  based  on  need 
 rather  than  you  just  guessing.  And  even 
 if  those  are  more  than  you  want  in  your 
 home  system,  just  focusing  on 
 efficiently  delivering  the  water  and 
 making  a  system  that  doesn't  break  and 
 is  reliable  and  making  even  watering  and 
 separating  the  zones  that  will  allow  you 
 to  have  an  environmentally  friendly 
 system.  If  you  would  like  to  see  one  of 
 these  eco-friendly  ideas  in  action, 
 check  out  our  construction  of  a  gravel 
 pathway.  It's  easier  than  you  think  and 
 your  garden  will  thank  you. 
 [Music]

---

 I've  been  a  landscape  contractor  and 
 landscape  architect  for  46  years  now. 
 Wow.  And  I've  seen  just  about  every 
 mistake  under  the  sun.  So,  we  have  been 
 called  in  to  fix  mistakes.  We've  also 
 been  called  into  court  to  testify  as 
 expert  [music]  witnesses  about  mistakes. 
 And  Brendan  wants  me  to  admit  that  I've 
 made  a  mistake  or  two.  Today  I'm  sharing 
 the  11  most  common  and  most  horrific 
 landscaping  mistakes  that  I've  seen  so 
 that  you  can  hopefully  dodge  the 
 disasters.  People  think  they're  planting 
 properly  and  providing  a  suitable  home, 
 but  [music]  they  might  be  sentencing 
 their  plant  to  a  slow  death.  This  one  I 
 have  experienced  many  times  and  the  city 
 of  Fresno  has  responded  to  this  problem 
 by  coming  up  with  a  whole  policy  that 
 everyone  has  to  abide  by  in  order  to 
 avoid.  When  we  plant  a  tree  for  the  city 
 of  Fresno,  drilling  or  some  large 
 excavation  is  required  and  a  waiting 
 period  of  20  days  is  required.  Sounds  a 
 little  severe  to  have  to  wait  20  days  to 
 plant  the  tree,  but  that  reflects  the 
 seriousness  of  the  problem.  Settling  is 
 when  the  tree  sinks  below  the  grade, 
 almost  like  dropping  into  a  hole.  Then 
 whenever  it  rains  or  even  when  you 
 water,  water  collects  around  the  base  of 
 the  trunk.  And  there's  nothing  worse  for 
 a  tree  than  water  collecting  around  it. 
 When  you're  planting  your  own  trees  and 
 plants,  here's  how  you  avoid  settling. 
 First  of  all,  you  don't  necessarily  need 
 to  dig  it  deep.  You  could  just  dig  it 
 the  proper  depth  and  not  subject  to 
 settling  on  the  bottom.  If  you're 
 certain  you  don't  have  hard  compacted 
 soil,  but  think  you  have  hard  or 
 compacted  soil,  then  you  need  to  dig 
 down  and  get  past  that  layer  of 
 compaction.  Then  you  have  to  settle  it 
 completely.  Regardless  of  the  depth,  you 
 want  to  dig  the  hole  very  very  wide.  So 
 you  want  to  go  two  to  2  and  1/2  times 
 the  width  of  the  root  ball.  The  other 
 important  thing  which  is  not  well 
 understood  at  all  is  the  whole 
 preparation  or  the  back  fill  that  you 
 use.  All  soil  scientists  and  arborists 
 agree  that  it  isn't  beneficial  to  use  a 
 lot  of  bulk  amendment  in  the  back  fill 
 because  we  want  trees  to  root  out  into 
 their  native  soil.  We  usually  recommend 
 using  the  native  soil  so  we  don't  have  a 
 difference  in  texture.  So  you're  not 
 creating  what  is  sometimes  called  the 
 bathtub  effect  where  you've  got  a  hole 
 that  is  a  certain  texture  and  a  certain 
 quality  of  soil  and  then  you  create  an 
 interface  where  that  meets  up  with  the 
 native  soil  and  the  plants  won't  root 
 out  into  that.  The  next  one  as  I  drive 
 around  [music]  town  I  see  all  kinds  of 
 examples  of  this  is  very  personal.  In 
 fact,  frequently  I  clutch  my  heart  and 
 think  I  might  not  make  it.  When  you  see 
 the  kinds  of  violations  that  are  going 
 on,  I  can  see  examples  of  this  type  of 
 heading  back  inappropriately 
 many,  many  times.  That's  improper 
 pruning.  If  you  have  a  big  oak, 
 beautiful  oak  tree,  and  you  head  it 
 back,  you  really  cause  problems  for  the 
 tree  down  the  road  because  under  the 
 cuts  sprouts  all  kinds  of  new  growth. 
 And  that  new  growth,  if  it's  in  the 
 middle  of  a  big  branch,  is  very  weakly 
 attached.  And  so  now  it  becomes  a 
 dangerous  tree.  The  proper  way  to  prune 
 most  of  these  trees  is  with  thinning 
 cuts,  not  with  heading  back  cuts.  And 
 with  thinning  cuts,  you  allow  the  tree 
 to  display  its  beauty.  If  you're  doing 
 heading  back  cuts,  you're  creating  trees 
 that  all  look  alike.  They  just  look  like 
 a  big  blob  on  top  of  a  trunk.  they  won't 
 display  their  natural  form  and  they'll 
 we'll  be  weak.  We're  doing  a  disservice 
 to  the  trees  and  a  disservice  to  us.  So, 
 we  think  the  best  way  to  avoid  making 
 mistakes  is  to  hit  the  like  button  and 
 subscribe  to  our  channel.  I  can't  count 
 how  many  times  I've  seen  broken  pipes, 
 damaged  roofs,  damaged  foundations  from 
 poor  tree  choices.  Typical  lots  here  and 
 around  the  country  are  small  these  days. 
 And  small  lots  don't  have  a  lot  of 
 opportunity  for  planting  that  you  might 
 desire.  And  if  you  plant  a  large  tree 
 with  big  roots  and  a  big  canopy,  you 
 limit  your  ability  to  have  other 
 plantings  because  that  tree  dominates  to 
 where  it's  pretty  much  the  only  thing 
 you  can  grow.  For  small  lots,  we  like  to 
 plant  small  trees,  what  we  call  patio 
 scale  trees,  so  that  we  can  do  other 
 types  of  planting  and  create  gardens 
 that  aren't  onedimensional  with  one 
 massive  tree  that's  causing  all  kinds  of 
 problems.  Chip.  Hey,  Mr.  Chip.  Hey,  come 
 on  over.  Chip  arrived  and  just  in  time 
 because  this  is  one  of  the  problems  that 
 he  really  is  sensitive  to.  You  go  to  the 
 nursery  and  [music]  you  see  all  kind  of 
 plants  you  like  or  you  look  online  and 
 you  see  all  kinds  of  plants  and  you 
 decide  to  use  them  all  in  your  yard  and 
 the  result  is  a  headache.  This  is  a 
 mistake  we  see  quite  a  bit  where  there 
 is  a  lack  of  continuity  in  the  planting 
 and  a  lack  of  understanding  that  the 
 white  plants  really  look  the  most 
 fantastic  is  when  they  are  masked. 
 Because  if  it  has  a  beautiful  flower  and 
 you  see  one  of  them,  think  of  the  impact 
 if  you  see  five  of  them  altogether.  We 
 would  encourage  you  to  try  to  heir  on 
 the  side  of  simplicity  rather  than  heir 
 on  the  side  of  giving  everyone  a 
 headache  that  drives  by  your  house.  Go 
 ahead,  Chip. 
 He's  annoyed  by  even  the  discussion  of 
 it.  People  constantly  complain  about  too 
 many  weeds,  erosion,  having  to  water  too 
 much.  But  there's  one  simple  thing  that 
 you  can  do  that  solves  all  of  these 
 problems.  Almost  all  gardens  that  have 
 been  in  a  while  suffer  from  a  lack  of 
 top  dressing  mulch.  It's  really 
 important.  It's  really  good  for  soil. 
 It's  really  good  for  plants,  really  good 
 for  weed  control.  The  constant 
 replenishing  of  it,  you  can  actually 
 train  your  yard  to  not  have  weeds  if 
 you're  generous  with  top  dressing  mulch. 
 And  yet,  if  you  tour  around  your  city 
 and  look  at  existing  gardens,  almost  all 
 of  them  no  longer  have  top  dressing 
 mulch  because  it's  blown  away  or  washed 
 away.  But  it's  something  that  is  really 
 important  for  the  ongoing  health  of  the 
 garden  and  the  ongoing  minimization  of 
 maintenance.  Another  added  bonus,  if  you 
 pick  the  right  one,  it  looks  really 
 nice.  It  looks  better  than  your  soil. 
 So,  it  makes  it  look  like  you  have  a 
 rich  soil.  Having  an  irrigation  [music] 
 system  to  water  your  plants  and  lawn  can 
 be  a  huge  timesaver.  But  it  needs  to  be 
 designed  and  installed  properly  because 
 if  you  don't,  your  lawn  could  end  up 
 looking  like  this.  Especially  hot 
 climates  like  ours.  I  see  I  would  say 
 every  day  in  the  summer  problems  with 
 the  irrigation  system.  The  coverage 
 isn't  sufficient.  So  we're  after 
 head-to-head  coverage.  We  don't  have 
 head-to-head  coverage.  So  you  have  dry 
 spots.  It's  usually  the  reason  behind 
 excessive  weeds,  disease,  poor  growth  on 
 the  plants.  There's  one  other  irrigation 
 mistake  I  see  a  lot  of.  People  don't 
 realize  what  they're  doing  wrong  because 
 many  plants  are  thriving  and  some  are 
 dying.  It  might  be  tempting  to  just 
 throw  water  everywhere  if  you're  trying 
 to  irrigate  and  because  that  is 
 inexpensive  and  it's  the  simplest  way. 
 But  if  you're  growing  different  kinds  of 
 plants  in  different  exposures,  it  really 
 requires  that  you  separate  these  areas. 
 For  instance,  the  east  side  should  be 
 watered  differently  than  the  south  side 
 and  the  north  side  should  be  different 
 than  the  west  side  because  these  areas 
 get  different  amounts  of  sun  and  require 
 different  amounts  of  water  and  different 
 types  of  plants  require  different  kinds 
 of  water  and  raised  planters  are 
 different.  A  vegetable  garden  is 
 different.  So  all  of  this  requires  some 
 separation.  Separate  the  valves,  have  a 
 controller  that  you  can  apply  water  on 
 certain  days  for  certain  things.  And 
 that's  really  an  area  that  many  people 
 aren't  aware  of  when  they  start  out  with 
 an  irrigation  system.  If  [music]  you  fix 
 this  mistake,  you  can  fundamentally 
 transform  your  entire  garden.  This 
 lesson  I've  learned  from  years  of 
 working  in  the  industry  and  seeing  this 
 lesson  over  and  over  again.  It's  really 
 predominant  in  new  housing  subdivisions 
 because  builders  and  developers  hire 
 landscape  contractors  to  landscape  yards 
 and  they  get  bids.  So  they're  usually 
 interested  in  hiring  the  least  expensive 
 bid  to  do  lots  of  landscapes  for  them. 
 And  so  you  see  many  many  landscapes 
 where  they  just  drive  a  tractor  and 
 level  everything,  put  saw  right  on  top 
 and  put  mulch  right  on  top,  but  no 
 consideration  at  all  is  given  to  soil 
 preparation  or  putting  life  in  the  soil. 
 And  the  soil  is  the  most  important  part 
 of  that  sod  thriving  and  those  plants 
 thriving.  Lack  of  consideration  for  soil 
 health  affects  all  kinds  of  things 
 including  poor  drainage  and  disease. 
 Lots  of  weed  growth,  trees  and  plants 
 not  rooting  out  into  the  native  soil,  so 
 they're  subject  to  blowing  over.  And 
 drainage  can  also  be  an  issue.  Often 
 times  people  think  they're  doing 
 everything  right.  They  get  the  right 
 plants,  they're  planted  in  the  ground 
 properly,  and  they  get  the  irrigation 
 system  operating,  but  they  are 
 overlooking  one  of  the  most  important 
 steps.  Hearkening  back  to  the  last 
 point,  the  way  to  avoid  abuse  of  your 
 soil  is  to  prepare  it  properly.  Many 
 existing  landscapes  that  we  go  to,  we 
 can  see  no  consideration  at  all  was 
 given  to  soil  preparation.  They  almost 
 always  include  fertilizer,  but 
 fertilizer  is  for  plants.  It's  not  for 
 soil.  For  soil,  we  need  products  that 
 encourage  life.  The  soil  can  be  improved 
 dramatically  with  products  that  increase 
 complex  life  in  the  soil.  So  beneficial 
 bacteria,  fungi,  prozzoa,  good  neatodes 
 and  that's  really  the  essence  of  our 
 product  line.  So  we  would  encourage  you 
 to  use  optimize  and  nourish  bio  and 
 maximize  and  our  penetrate  liquid 
 biotiller  particularly  good  for  heavy 
 soil  that  doesn't  drain  well  instead  of 
 our  products.  You  could  use  really  good 
 quality  compost  or  compost  tea.  [music] 
 This  style  of  planting  has  been  around 
 for  a  long  time,  and  I  see  it  discussed 
 still  to  this  day  on  the  internet  over 
 and  over  again,  but  it  causes  problems 
 for  the  house,  and  I  think  it's  lent 
 itself  to  kind  of  a  tired  and 
 unattractive  look.  Many,  many  landscapes 
 that  you  see  have  plants  that  are 
 usually  too  big  for  their  spot  right  up 
 next  to  the  house,  and  that  is  called 
 foundation  planting.  It  started  because 
 foundations  used  to  be  ugly.  Look  at 
 your  house.  Is  your  house  ugly?  Do  you 
 need  to  cover  it  up?  We  don't  need  to 
 cover  the  house.  We  don't  need  to  plant 
 plants  too  close  to  the  house  that  then 
 invade  on  the  windows,  on  the  roof,  make 
 it  hard  to  do  common  maintenance.  Some 
 small  plantings  might  be  okay,  but  we 
 don't  need  to  hide  our  foundations. 
 Usually  quite  the  opposite.  We  want  to 
 show  off  the  house.  And  the  best  way  to 
 show  off  the  house,  I  think,  is  by 
 creating  useful  spaces  around  it.  bring 
 the  landscape  out  away  from  the  house 
 and  make  a  lot  of  interesting  things 
 going  on  with  plantings  and  uh  and 
 circulation  and  walkways.  Let's  do  away 
 with  foundation  planting.  Let's  focus  on 
 creative  spaces  in  our  garden  and  plants 
 farther  out  away  from  our  house.  There's 
 no  bigger  problem  than  sites  that  suffer 
 from  this.  And  I  think  it  should  be  the 
 first  consideration  when  you  look  at 
 your  house  and  your  site.  you  figure  out 
 what's  the  best  way  to  drain  this 
 landscape  away  from  the  house.  Drainage, 
 in  my  opinion,  is  right  up  there.  One  of 
 the  most  important  things.  We  don't  want 
 water  sitting  up  near  the  house.  I've 
 seen  lots  of  problems  created  by 
 creative  landscape  designs  a  lot  of 
 times  with  with  mounding  or  other 
 changes  in  grade  that  doesn't  adequately 
 adequately  address  how  the  site  drains 
 between  these  changes  in  elevation 
 between  the  mound  and  the  house  you  trap 
 water.  So  these  are  areas  that  really 
 need  to  be  addressed  right  from  the 
 start.  We  want  to  grade  this  in  a  way 
 that  all  the  water  runs  off  properly.  It 
 would  be  nice  as  part  of  our  landscape 
 plan  to  come  up  with  a  drainage  plan 
 that  addresses  that  right  from  the 
 start.  From  there,  we  can  be  very 
 creative  with  a  landscape  that  we  know 
 uh  drains  effectively.  By  witnessing 
 these  mistakes  over  the  years,  I've 
 learned  the  hard  way.  But  hopefully  by 
 sharing  them  with  you,  your  garden  can 
 thrive  without  these  heartaches.  If  you 
 want  to  see  one  of  the  gardens  we 
 designed  with  all  of  these  in  mind, 
 watch  this  video  here.

---

 What  if  I  told  you  you  could  eat  fresh, 
 inexpensive  vegetables  from  your  winter 
 garden  if  you  plant  these  crops  right 
 now?  [music] 
 Today,  I  will  share  with  you  which  crops 
 are  great  winter  growers  and  will  keep 
 you  wellfed  throughout  the  cold. 
 Starting  with 
 onions.  So,  we're  in  zone  9.  Every  week 
 when  I  go  to  Trader  Joe's,  my  wife  has 
 on  a  list  yellow  onions.  So,  I  planted  a 
 bunch  of  yellow  onions.  Then,  these  will 
 be  way  better  than  the  ones  I  get  at 
 Trader  Joe's,  but  I'll  have  to  wait  a 
 few  months  to  harvest  them.  Onions  do 
 great  when  you  plant  them  anytime  in 
 November.  We  actually  planted  these  in 
 very  late  October.  You  either  plant  them 
 in  late  summer  or  fall.  In  other  zones, 
 you'll  have  varying  times  that  are  the 
 best  to  plant  onions.  Check  on  the 
 specifics  in  your  own  zone.  We  planted 
 three  varieties.  quite  a  few  walawala 
 onions  which  are  very  sweet  and  very 
 mild.  And  then  we  planted  another  yellow 
 one  called  Elsie.  Its  claim  to  fame  is 
 that  it's  resistant  to  thris.  And  then 
 we  planted  a  big  white  onion.  Some 
 people  call  it  Sierra  Blanca  and  some 
 people  call  it  superstar.  I'd  much 
 rather  call  it  superstar.  That  makes  you 
 feel  special.  And  that  white  onion  is 
 one  of  the  most  widely  adaptable  onions 
 that  grows  in  lots  of  different 
 climates.  What  I  start  with  to  make 
 every  dish  special  is  some  kind  of 
 onion,  olive  oil,  garlic,  oregano,  salt, 
 and  pepper.  What  a  great  way  to  start 
 almost  any  dish.  So,  next  is  cilantro. 
 You  can't  see  it  cuz  we  planted  it  from 
 seed,  but  it'll  be  coming  up  [music] 
 soon.  This  weather  today,  a  high  of  80°, 
 perfect  to  germinate  cilantro  as  long  as 
 you  keep  the  seeds  moist.  Cilantro  grows 
 in  zones  8  to  11.  If  you're  a  hotter 
 zone  than  that,  you  can  wait  till  later 
 in  the  season.  And  if  you're  in  a  cooler 
 zone,  like  3  to  7,  then  you  can  plant  it 
 when  you  have  warmer  weather  like  late 
 summer.  Whenever  you  can  grow  cilantro, 
 that's  a  great  thing  to  have  in  your 
 garden  from  the  standpoint  of  keeping 
 your  other  plants  healthy.  It's 
 fantastic  to  keep  pests  away.  Aphid  and 
 whitefly  don't  like  the  smell  of 
 cilantro.  Other  thing  about  it  is  it's 
 great  at  attracting  pollinators.  A  lot 
 of  times  you  need  pollinators  for 
 different  crops  and  it  attracts 
 beneficials.  While  it's  there  making 
 your  garden  better,  it  can  also  be  an 
 important  ingredient  in  guacamole  and 
 different  types  of  salsa.  Next,  we  have 
 broccoli.  If  you're  old  enough  like  me, 
 you  remember  that  one  of  our 
 ex-presidents  hated  broccoli.  Broccoli 
 grows  in  zones  2  to  11.  Middle  to  late 
 December,  we  think  we'll  be  able  to 
 harvest.  Then  it  lasts  a  long  time  as 
 long  as  the  weather  stays  cool.  And 
 broccoli,  almost  every  variety  likes 
 slightly  acidic  soil.  So  in  the  six  to 
 seven  range,  our  products  that  I'll  tell 
 you  about  later  are  good  at  giving  you 
 that  range.  We  planted  two  varieties  of 
 broccoli  that  have  two  different  growth 
 habits.  This  first  variety  is  called 
 Marathon  and  that  grows  in  the  more 
 standard  single  stock  with  big  fit  of 
 broccoli.  It's  got  great  cold  tolerance. 
 Let's  go  look  at  the  other  variety  of 
 broccoli  which  is  broccoli  artwork.  I 
 think  even  a  broccoli  hater  would  have  a 
 difficult  time  not  liking  broccoli 
 artwork  because  it  grows  like  what  you 
 would  call  broccolini  as  it  sprouts  and 
 it  puts  on  its  first  head  of  broccoli. 
 If  you  cut  that  out  and  harvest  it,  then 
 it  responds  with  side  shoots.  Then 
 you're  harvesting  a  much  smaller,  more 
 tender  broccoli.  For  broccoli,  I  like  it 
 roasted  with  garlic  and  maybe  lemon.  And 
 then  what  I  really  like  to  put  over  the 
 top  is  a  really  good  imported  Romano 
 cheese.  Makes  it  so  you  can't  taste  the 
 broccoli  that  much.  And  the  cheese  is 
 delicious. 
 Next  for  you,  [music]  snowball 
 cauliflower.  One  of  the  neat  things 
 about  snowball  cauliflower  is  it  stays 
 protected  from  the  sun  by  the  leaves.  It 
 can  blanch  the  color.  6  in  wide  and  3  to 
 5  lbs  each.  That's  big.  It's  almost  a 
 quarter  of  chip.  It  grows  well  in  zones 
 2  to  11.  So  very  similar  to  broccoli.  If 
 you're  in  zone  2  or  near  zone  2,  then 
 you  want  to  start  it  earlier  so  that  you 
 can  harvest  it  in  the  fall.  If  you're  in 
 a  warm  zone  like  us,  zone  9,  then  you 
 plant  it  in  fall,  even  in  November  is 
 good  and  we'll  harvest  it  through  the 
 winter.  It's  also  got  about  a  two-month 
 period  before  it's  ready  to  harvest.  So, 
 we'll  be  harvesting  it  in  December  and 
 January  and  maybe  even  into  February.  I 
 know  we  just  covered  this,  but  it  really 
 lends  itself  well  to  roasting  also.  It 
 is  well  enhanced  by  parsley  and  dill. 
 And  then  I  love  my  Romano  cheese  over 
 the  top.  Chip  and  I  [music]  are  standing 
 in  front  of  the  seated  radishes.  Great 
 in  zones  2  to  11.  People  all  over  the 
 country  can  plant  radishes.  If  you're 
 close  to  zone  2,  then  you're  going  to  do 
 it  in  late  summer  and  harvest  in  the 
 fall.  If  you're  in  warmer  zones  like 
 ours,  then  we're  going  to  plant  it  about 
 now.  And  we'll  be  eating  radishes  in 
 early  December.  The  neat  thing  about 
 radishes,  which  I  think  make  it  useful 
 for  growing  in  a  lot  of  different 
 situations,  is  how  fast  you  can  grow  a 
 crop  of  radishes.  I  think  we  can  have 
 radishes  in  30  days.  I  don't  think  you 
 can  find  another  crop  that  you  can  grow 
 that  fast.  Now,  what's  the  best  way  to 
 eat  radishes?  I  eat  almost  exclusively 
 raw  and  in  salads.  You  can  pickle 
 radishes,  which  I've  done  with  onions.  I 
 forgot  to  mention  that  in  our  onion 
 section.  Those  are  my  favorite  ways  for 
 these  radishes.  Next  is  our  romaine 
 lettuce.  Romaine  lettuce  is  a 
 nutritional  powerhouse.  You  [music] 
 could  almost  consider  it  a  superfood.  It 
 is  fantastic  for  you.  High  in  vitamin  A, 
 C,  K,  and  B6  with  lots  of  minerals  and 
 lots  of  antioxidants. 
 Grows  in  zones  3  to  11.  Maybe  a  little 
 bit  more  sensitive  to  cold  than  some  of 
 the  most  tolerant  winter  crops.  Optimal 
 growing  temperature  between  45  and  75°. 
 That's  perfect  for  when  we're  planting 
 here.  But  target  your  planting  dates  to 
 recognize  that  optimal  growing 
 temperatures  45  to  75.  The  most  popular 
 and  classic  recipe  for  romaine  lettuce 
 is  obviously  Caesar  salad,  but  also  what 
 I  like  about  it,  you  can  use  it  in  any 
 salad.  You  can  use  it  to  substitute  for 
 any  other  kind  of  lettuce.  And  we  have 
 broccoli  rob.  One  of  my  favorite  winter 
 crops.  Also  easy  to  grow  and  grows  in  a 
 wide  range  of  climates.  So  the  classic 
 zones  for  broccoli  rob  are  3  to  10.  And 
 if  it  gets  too  warm,  it  goes  to  seed.  So 
 you  need  to  be  careful  about  that  in 
 terms  of  when  you  plant  it  and  where  you 
 plant  it.  I  think  of  it  as  a  cross 
 between  broccoli  and  mustard  greens.  So 
 broccoli  rob  is  very  versatile  and  you 
 could  cook  it  a  lot  of  different  ways.  I 
 like  it  with  pasta,  but  a  really 
 creative  one  is  broccoli  rob  and  black 
 bean  quesadillas. 
 These  are  Detroit  dark  beets.  It's  an 
 heirloom  beet  that  was  [music] 
 introduced  in  1892.  That's  about  as 
 heirloom  as  you  can  get.  They've  been 
 around  a  long  time  because  people  like 
 them.  And  you  can  eat  the  beet  itself  or 
 the  tops.  Detroit  dark  beets  grow  great 
 in  zones  2  to  10.  And  in  zones  2  to  six, 
 you  can  grow  them  as  a  fall  crop  or  a 
 spring  crop.  And  in  our  zone,  best  as  a 
 winter  crop.  I  eat  beets  uh  mostly  in 
 salad  and  all  kinds  of  salads.  They  lend 
 themselves  very  well.  It's  kind  of  hard 
 to  find  a  beet  I  don't  like.  So,  as  you 
 can  see,  Chip  and  I  have  plenty  of 
 winter  vegetables  here  to  keep  us  busy. 
 But  there's  lots  of  others  you  could 
 plant  like  celery,  kale,  spinach, 
 carrots,  and  probably  some  we're  leaving 
 out.  And  all  of  them  kind  of  fall  into 
 the  same  categories  as  the  ones  we've 
 described  here  in  terms  of  the  zones 
 they  grow  in  and  how  you  plant  them.  And 
 the  secret  to  make  them  thrive,  we  will 
 get  to  that  right  now.  We  did  something 
 special  that  we  found  works  real  well. 
 After  we  took  out  the  summer  crops,  we 
 had  the  bare  ground  and  we  sprinkled 
 maximize  all  over,  which  is  really 
 functions  like  a  high  quality  compost 
 does  a  lot  of  the  same  things  that 
 earthworm  castings  do.  And  then  we  had  a 
 couple  of  light  rains  and  we  ra  that  in 
 just  lightly.  As  we  got  ready  to  plant, 
 we  used  blend.  And  so  the  blend  gets 
 mixed  in  right  with  the  back  fill  and 
 that  goes  right  up  to  the  roots  of  these 
 plants.  You  can  see  they're  very  very 
 small.  We  want  them  to  get  off  to  a 
 strong  start.  And  that's  really  the 
 strategy  we  used  with  everything  and  we 
 found  it's  really  effective.  And  then  as 
 things  start  to  root,  we'll  we'll  go 
 over  it  a  few  times  with  penetrate 
 liquid  biotiller.  So  that's  kind  of  our 
 magic  potion  for  tremendous  uh  winter 
 crop  of  vegetables.  If  you're  interested 
 in  more  details  on  how  to  transform  your 
 soil  for  your  garden  and  for  your 
 landscape,  [music] 
 check  out  this  video  right  here.  It  will 
 help  you  learn  how  to  improve  [music] 
 your  soil  the  lazy

---

 Do  you  ever  look  out  at  your  garden  and 
 feel  overwhelmed?  Weeds  growing 
 everywhere,  lawn  looking  like  it  just 
 gave  up,  and  the  overwhelming  amount  of 
 things  you  feel  like  you  have  to  do. 
 You're  not  alone.  Over  the  past  60 
 years,  I've  seen  [music]  people  who  want 
 to  avoid  their  garden  altogether  to  it 
 becoming  one  of  the  highlights  of  their 
 day.  And  today  with  my  super  super  fun 
 friend  Eddie  the  lazy  landscaper,  I  want 
 to  share  some  tips  with  you  to  make 
 gardening  [music]  so  much  fun. 
 >> But  I  don't  want  to  leave  this  place.  I 
 mean,  there's  a  hammock  back  there  with 
 my  name  on  it. 
 >> It  starts  with  one  simple  mindset  shift 
 that  will  kickstart  your  love  for 
 gardening.  Look  at  that.  That's  the 
 epitome  of  fun.  Look  at  him.  He's 
 enjoying  himself.  So,  you  need  to  think 
 of  your  garden  as  interactive.  I  always 
 like  to  refer  back  to  the  [music]  famous 
 book,  Gardens  Are  for  People,  which 
 encourages  people  to  create  great  little 
 intimate  settings  like  this  for 
 different  things  like  sleeping.  Eddie 
 the  lazy  landscaper  would  love  that.  And 
 it  should  be  quiet,  obviously.  And  if 
 you're  shelling  the  peas,  it  should  be 
 sheltered  from  wind.  If  you're  drinking, 
 it  should  be  level.  And  it's  these 
 intimate  spaces  throughout  your  garden 
 that  I  think  can  be  a  lot  of  fun. 
 >> Oh,  absolutely.  You  know,  my  wife  uh  was 
 kind  enough  to  uh  have  a  greenhouse 
 built  for  me. 
 >> Yeah. 
 >> Uh  and  uh  when  she's  entertaining,  um  it 
 locks  from  the  outside  and  uh  but  it  but 
 it's  a  quiet  space  for  me  and  it's  a 
 quiet  space  for  her,  too. 
 >> Yeah. 
 >> So,  think  about  your  own  life  and  what 
 you  could  use  your  garden  for.  Some 
 people  might  want  to  have  a  place  to 
 talk  to  their  neighbors  or  wait  for  a 
 ride.  There's  all  kinds  of  special  uses 
 you  can  get  out  of  spaces  in  the  garden 
 that  can  make  your  life  a  lot  more  fun. 
 What  is  it  for  you,  Eddie? 
 >> Well,  I  tell  you,  we  recently  put  in  a 
 pergola  with  a  roof  so  that  we  can  be 
 there  year  round  and  uh  so  this  winter 
 for  the  first  time  we're  going  to  have  a 
 fire  pit  there  now. 
 >> Oh, 
 >> yeah.  And  that  that'll  be  nice.  And  I 
 can  wave  to  my  wife  inside  the  house. 
 But  it's  really  a  neat  neat  neat  area  of 
 our  yard  that  now  we're  utilizing  year 
 round. 
 >> To  me,  this  is  a  great  setting  just  to 
 sit  here  and  talk  to  you  and  look  at 
 those  two  fabulous  cork  oaks. 
 >> You  know,  you  were  talking  about  having 
 fun  and  this  garden  has  both  an  Asian 
 influence  and  and  of  course  the  the  fine 
 work  that  you've  done  here  as  a 
 landscape  architect,  but  I  think  if  you 
 have  fun  and  you  have  the  Asian 
 influence,  I  guess  I  would  call  that 
 fune. 
 Ed,  have  you  noticed  that  Japanese  maple 
 over  there  in  the  corner  behind  the 
 Japanese  lantern? 
 >> It's  hard  not  to  notice  that  contrast 
 with  the  green  and  the  lantern  there. 
 It's  really  looks  that's  just  picture 
 perfect. 
 >> Let's  go  check  it  out.  It's  a  great 
 example  of  our  next  point.  Now,  you 
 might  be  thinking,  what  about  weeds, 
 fertilizer,  and  all  the  technical  stuff 
 involved  in  [music]  gardening?  I  can't 
 just  ignore  all  that,  right?  Would  you 
 believe  me  if  I  told  you  all  of  that 
 stuff  can  be  addressed  in  15  minutes 
 twice  a  year? 
 >> Oh,  now  you've  got  my  attention. 
 >> Look  at  that  red  maple  behind  us.  A  big 
 reason  why  it's  so  spectacular  is 
 because  of  healthy  soil.  And  it's  that 
 healthy  soil  that  is  the  key  to 
 simplifying  everything  about  gardening 
 and  keeping  it  fun.  If  you  figure  out  a 
 way  to  make  your  soil  full  of  beneficial 
 life,  that's  the  first  step  and  one  of 
 the  main  steps  to  having  a  garden  that 
 requires  a  lot  less  maintenance. 
 >> Well,  as  you  know,  John,  I  have  been 
 using  your  blend  now  for  for  years.  You 
 know,  I'm  lazy 
 >> and  it  just  fits  perfectly  in  my 
 personality,  but  then  everybody  else 
 says,  "Oh,  you  must  have  really  worked 
 hard  in  this  yard  because  looks  how 
 beautiful  it  looks."  You  know,  and  I  go, 
 "Well,  you  know,  I  just  it's  just  a 
 gift."  So  15  minutes  twice  a  year.  Even 
 for  you,  that's  not  too  much. 
 >> Come  on.  I  just  have  I  have  three  cups 
 of  coffee.  I  hold  my  breath  and  I  run. 
 And  it's  just  great.  You  know,  just 
 throw  it  out  there. 
 >> Yeah. 
 >> We  should  include  that  on  the  label. 
 Making  your  soil  healthy  allows  you  to 
 not  stress  about  a  lot  of  things  that 
 people  might  stress  about.  So,  you're  on 
 your  way  to  a  fun  garden  or  landscape 
 because  you're  removing  basically  all 
 the  pressures  of  gardening.  The  plants 
 are  doing  great  here  and  we've  fed  the 
 soil  with  blend  more  than  once.  All  of 
 this  used  to  be  asphalt.  So,  we  had  a 
 challenge  in  making  the  soil  healthy  and 
 full  of  life.  We're  really  happy  with 
 the  progress  we've  made  in  the  quality 
 of  the  soil.  And  we  think  that's  why 
 everything  is  doing  well.  What  if  your 
 favorite  part  of  the  day  wasn't 
 scrolling  on  your  phone  or  flopping  on 
 your  couch?  Let's  create  little  rituals 
 in  the  garden  that  make  it  something  we 
 can  look  forward  to.  Ed,  what  are  your 
 rituals  in  the  garden? 
 >> I'm  glad  you  qualified  that  because  I 
 have  some  rituals  that  I  couldn't  talk 
 about.  I  love  strolling  around  the 
 garden  uh  with  either  a  glass  of  wine  or 
 a  cup  of  coffee  in  my  hand.  Um,  and  I've 
 learned  now  that  rather  than  have  the 
 glass  of  wine  in  the  morning  and  the  cup 
 of  coffee  at  night, 
 >> I  reversed  it  now.  So,  I  do  the  cup  of 
 coffee  in  the  morning,  glass  of  wine  at 
 night.  But  I  [clears throat]  love  having 
 a  citrus  tree  close  to  the  pool. 
 >> And  you  ask  why?  Well,  because  when  I 
 can  pick  a  fresh  lime  or  lime  quat  and 
 put  it  in  my  vodka  tonic.  Wow. 
 >> Wow. 
 >> Yeah.  So,  there's  that  convenience 
 factor.  Plus,  I  also  love  to  smell  the 
 citrus  when  the  when  they're  in  bloom  or 
 blossoms. 
 >> And  it  ties  into  one  of  my  rituals, 
 which  is  I  check  I  just  like  to  check  on 
 the  progress  of  things.  And  right  now,  I 
 have  four  mature  navl  oranges.  And  so 
 I'm  constantly  looking  at  those  and 
 they're  full  of  oranges  this  year.  This 
 is  the  second  year  in  the  ground  and 
 they're  just  turning  color.  And  so  I 
 like  to  on  a  daily  basis  kind  of  follow 
 the  process  of  them  maturing  and 
 changing  color.  It's  really  a  neat  thing 
 to  look  at  almost  every  day.  I  haven't 
 yet  tried  one  because  they're  just 
 getting  a  little  color  now,  but  as  we 
 get  a  little  farther  to  full  maturity,  I 
 like  to  pick  one  and  try  them  and  kind 
 of  for  myself  [snorts]  see  what  they're 
 like  as  they  ripen.  So  that  process  can 
 be  enjoyed  with  all  kinds  of  plants.  For 
 you  to  start,  why  don't  you  buy  a  plant 
 that  appeals  to  you  in  some  way,  either 
 the  leaf  color  or  shape  or  the  flower  of 
 it,  and  then  watch  it  as  it  goes  through 
 whatever  this  special  thing  that  it 
 does.  Make  your  garden  fun  by  watching 
 your  plants  grow.  With  our  shift  to 
 focus  on  soil  health,  this  brings  me  to 
 my  next  point.  Gardening  isn't  a 
 productivity  or  beauty  contest.  If 
 there's  a  weed  here  or  there,  definitely 
 if  there's  a  pest  here  and  there,  it's 
 not  a  disaster.  Some  people  think  much 
 more  healthy  gardening  ecosystems  have  a 
 little  bit  of  everything  in  them.  And 
 plants,  I  think,  are  more  beautiful  when 
 you  allow  them  to  achieve  their  natural 
 form.  And  a  lot  of  them  like  to  spread 
 out.  And  when  they  do  that,  they  look 
 very  unique  and  special.  When  you  club 
 them  into  submission,  they  don't  look 
 unique.  They  just  look  like  a  bunch  of 
 shapes  you  remember  from  geometry.  So  if 
 you're  designing  a  garden  that  is  more 
 natural  looking,  that  plays  into  this 
 idea  of  kind  of  letting  things  be. 
 >> Well,  and  and  you  think  about  things 
 like  lavender  and  stuff.  Why  would  you 
 want  to  prune  that?  Why  wouldn't  you 
 want  to  just  let  it 
 >> Yeah.  And  then  and  you  want  to  pick 
 plants  like  lavender  that  really  don't 
 need  pruning  cuz  they  don't  usually  get 
 that  big  and  then  you  want  them  to  bloom 
 their  best.  And  um 
 >> fields  of  lavender  though  so  pretty. 
 >> That's  beautiful. 
 >> Obviously,  and  this  is  across  the 
 country,  but  look  at  what  zone  you're 
 in.  That's  the  best  zone  to  plant  native 
 plants.  Uh  which  of  course  do  so  much 
 better.  So  you  don't  even  have  to  be  an 
 accomplished  gardener.  If  you're  using 
 native  plants,  the  success  rate  is  very 
 good.  Start  small.  Um,  start  with  a 
 container  plant  or  two  and  see  how  you 
 like  it.  And  then  if  you  really  like 
 that,  you  can  do  more  of  those  things. 
 Or  you  can  do  a  little  vegetable  garden 
 or  or  just  a  little  um  herb  window  sill 
 garden  if  you  want  to.  little  different 
 wrinkle  on  that  is  you  can  a  fun  thing 
 to  me  is  try  to  go  outside  your  zone  a 
 little  bit  and  see  if  you  can  for 
 instance  using  our  products  if  you  get 
 that  soil  perfectly  healthy  you  can  get 
 plants  to  tolerate  cold  outside  its  zone 
 limit  and  heat  outside  its  zone  limit  so 
 you  if  you  really  get  into  gardening  you 
 might  want  to  challenge  the  zone  that 
 you're  supposed  to  grow 
 >> I  agree  with  you  I  think  the  the  more 
 you  get  into  it  then  you  want  to  do 
 those  kind  of 
 >> [music] 
 >> You  know,  one  of  the  beautiful  things 
 about  having  an  everchanging  garden  is 
 it  can  be  beautiful  year  round.  And  when 
 we  think  of  colors,  I'm  not  necessarily 
 talking  about  planting  annuals,  which  I 
 don't  do  that  much  of.  You  can  have 
 perennials  that  will  provide  color,  but 
 I'm  also  just  talking  about  things  like 
 differences  in  the  way  leaves  change 
 color,  you  know,  from  from  what  you  see 
 in  the  spring  and  then  what  you  see  in 
 the  autumn  going  into  winter. 
 Eventually,  a  lot  of  them  are  deciduous 
 and  lose  their  leaves.  The  other  thing  I 
 do,  which  is  kind  of  my  own  lazy  way  to 
 get  color,  is  uh  I  have  colored  pots. 
 And  by  doing  that,  I  have  year-  round 
 color.  Even  if  the  uh  if  the  plants  that 
 are  in  those  pots  don't  bloom  at  all  or 
 aren't  blooming  for  several  months,  it 
 just  gives  me  that  other  variety  of  the 
 colorscape  I  like.  And  it's  the  lazy  way 
 to  get  color  when  you  don't  want  to 
 plant  stuff. 
 >> Speaking  of  color,  what  about  this  Santa 
 Barbara  salvia?  It's  a  dwarf  salvia.  Oh, 
 yeah. 
 Yeah,  Chips.  Uh, 
 >> Chip,  you  do  like  it  then.  I  thought  it 
 did. 
 >> It  doesn't  get  too  big  and  it  blooms 
 like  crazy  more  than  once  a  year.  That's 
 what's  neat  about  it.  So,  it'll  do  the 
 same  thing.  Maybe  even  a  little  more 
 profuse  in  the  spring  and  then  it  has  a 
 long  spring  where  it  blooms  great.  But 
 then  when  you  get  into  the  middle  of  the 
 summer,  it  doesn't  bloom  much.  And  then 
 as  soon  as  the  summer  just  starts 
 cooling  a  little,  even  in  August,  it 
 starts  blooming  again  right  through  the 
 fall  up  into  winter.  When  I  was  on  track 
 team,  I  had  a  long  spring,  but  boy,  not 
 now. 
 >> No,  I  just  uh  I  just  kind  of  shuffle 
 like  this.  Now,  [snorts] 
 >> gardening  doesn't  have  to  be  perfect.  It 
 doesn't  have  to  be  fancy,  and  it 
 definitely  doesn't  have  to  be  stressful. 
 >> And  John,  you  know,  I'm  living  proof  of 
 that,  right?  I  mean,  I  don't  like  to  be 
 all  stressed  up  with  no  place  to  go.  So, 
 I  just  stay  at  home  and  nap  in  my 
 garden.  To  ensure  you  keep  enjoying  your 
 meditative  moments  in  the  garden,  this 
 video  right  here  will  help  you 
 understand  which  organic  ingredients  are 
 best  for  feeding  your  soil  and  creating 
 a  garden  that  requires  minimal 
 maintenance.

---

 If  you  want  a  beautiful  garden  in  fall, 
 winter,  and  spring,  there's  a  few 
 flowers  you  should  plant  right  now.  Chip 
 and  I  are  here  at  Green  Hills  Nursery, 
 and  we're  going  to  show  you  what  flowers 
 are  great  for  any  garden  and  landscape, 
 and  most  importantly,  which  ones  not  to 
 plant  in  the  fall  because  they  won't 
 survive  the  winter. 
 Okay,  Chip,  look  at  this.  First  thing  we 
 come  across  this  beautiful  denths  and 
 dianths  is  a  good  cool  season  annual. 
 You  can  plant  it  in  the  fall.  If  you  get 
 it  going  in  the  fall,  it'll  bloom  in  the 
 winter  and  the  early  spring.  Hot  summer 
 weather  makes  this  look  terrible. 
 Depending  how  hot  your  summer  is, 
 they'll  survive  through  the  summer  and 
 you  could  treat  it  as  a  perennial.  In 
 our  area,  it's  more  of  an  annual  because 
 it's  so  darn  hot.  So,  this  is  red 
 dianthis.  And  dianthis  comes  in  quite  a 
 few  uh  colors.  dark  purplish  that  we  saw 
 and  white  even.  You  can  plant  it  in  the 
 full  sun.  Doesn't  really  tolerate  shade 
 very  well.  The  color  you  choose  is 
 depending  on  your  design  style.  You 
 know,  you  can  mix  them  and  have  all 
 kinds  of  colors.  I  would  probably  pick 
 one  or  two  colors  just  because  I  like  to 
 do  massing  of  colors,  but  there's  not  a 
 right  way  and  a  wrong  way.  Most  of  these 
 plants  will  look  good  in  the  fall  and 
 the  winter.  Lavender  really  won't,  but 
 lavender  is  really  good  to  plant  now  if 
 you  want  it  to  just  start  blooming  like 
 crazy  in  the  spring,  early  spring.  It 
 isn't  inappropriate  to  use,  but  you're 
 not  going  to  get  that  color  like  you're 
 going  to  get  with  a  lot  of  the  plants 
 we're  going  to  show  you,  where  you  can 
 actually  get  them  going  when  the 
 weather's  still  a  little  bit  warm  now, 
 and  then  they  could  possibly  bloom  right 
 through  the  winter,  depending  on  your 
 climate,  and  into  the  spring. 
 So,  we  got  a  beautiful  flat  of  cyclamin 
 here,  which  is  great  for  fall  and  winter 
 and  early  spring.  And  there's  a  lot  of 
 interesting  colors  that  they  have  here. 
 And  this  is  one  of  the  plants  that  grows 
 good  in  shade  and  blooms  like  crazy  in 
 shade.  Hard  to  find  annuals  that  bloom 
 in  the  shade.  And  if  you  plant  it  early 
 enough,  get  it  some  sunlight,  get  it 
 some  warmth  in  the  fall,  you  could  have 
 color  in  the  right  climate  in  the  middle 
 of  the  winter.  The  other  plant  that  does 
 good  in  shade  in  the  winter  is  primrose. 
 And  here  we've  got  all  kinds  of  prim 
 roses.  Unfortunately,  none  of  them  are 
 blooming,  but  primrose  is  another 
 excellent  fall,  winter,  early  spring 
 shade  plant. 
 So,  this  one's  great  for  a  fall 
 planting.  Very  uniquely,  you  can  almost 
 plant  it  any  time  of  the  year.  still 
 planted  as  an  annual,  but  it'll  take  hot 
 weather,  it'll  take  cold  weather,  and 
 it's  an  old-fashioned  plant  that  you 
 probably  saw  at  your  grandmother's 
 house.  And  that's  Snapdragon.  Comes  in 
 many  different  colors.  So,  it's  an 
 annual  that  fits  the  description  of  what 
 we're  talking  about  today.  You  can  plant 
 it  now,  get  it  some  warm  weather,  get  it 
 to  start  blooming,  and  it'll  look  good 
 right  through  the  winter  and  then 
 fantastic  in  the  spring. 
 I  see  a  lot  of  really  useful  and  great 
 annual  bedding  plants  back  here,  the 
 kind  that  we  want  to  plant  this  time  of 
 the  year.  All  this  stock  here  is  just 
 starting  to  bloom.  You  don't  want  to  get 
 them  where  they  look  like  they're  at  the 
 tail  end  of  their  bloom.  You  want  to  get 
 them  where  they're  just  starting  to 
 bloom  and  you  can  see  buds  and  that'll 
 continue  right  through  if  you  plant  them 
 properly.  Use  a  lot  of  blend  and 
 penetrate  on  it.  Get  them  going  real 
 quickly.  That's  exactly  the  kind  of 
 plant  we  want  to  use.  This  is  the 
 protottypical 
 fall,  winter,  early  spring  annual  that 
 you  plant  now.  Plant  densely.  It  takes 
 off.  It  starts  blooming.  It  could  bloom 
 right  through  the  fall  and  winter  and 
 spring.  You  can  get  chingula  in  orange 
 like  this.  You  can  all  you  can  see  the 
 other  ones  over  there  in  yellow  just 
 starting  to  bloom.  I  like  to  plant  them 
 that  way  when  they're  just  starting  to 
 bloom  and  aren't  covered  in  blooms  yet. 
 And  then  on  our  other  side,  more  of  the 
 same  kind  of  thing.  Alissum  you  could 
 plant  now  and  it'll  bloom  right  through 
 the  cool  weather.  And  you  can  see  it 
 comes  in  purple  or  white.  Alyssum  has 
 the  advantage  of  also  attracting  a  lot 
 of  beneficials  and  important 
 beneficials.  I  like  to  use  uh  alysum 
 almost  in  every  garden. 
 This  is  an  overlooked  annual  that  really 
 makes  a  nice  border  and  it  does  great 
 all  spring.  People  call  it  different 
 things.  I  think  most  people  call  it 
 paladosum.  It's  actually  a  type  of 
 chrysanthemum.  It's  a  white  with  an 
 orange  center.  Kind  of  a  tight 
 controlled  growth.  Really  nice  annual 
 for  the  fall,  winter,  and  very  early 
 spring.  It  doesn't  get  that  tall.  What 
 do  they  consider  it?  8  in.  So  that's 
 nice  to  have  something  that  you  know 
 stays  at  8  in.  You  can  plant  things 
 behind  it  that  are  taller.  Paladosum  is 
 a  really  nice  kind  of  underused  fall, 
 winter,  early  spring  annual.  For  more 
 color,  you  can  use  flowering  cabbages, 
 which  you  know  get  more  spectacular 
 after  they're  planted  for  a  while.  So, 
 the  ornamental  cabbage  has  deep  red 
 centers,  all  vegetative  growth,  but 
 really  colorful  and  pretty  long  lasting. 
 It  does  get  15  to  18  in  tall.  You  need 
 to  keep  that  in  mind.  That  cabbage  is 
 pretty  good  size,  over  a  foot  tall. 
 One  of  my  favorites  is  Iceland  poppies. 
 And  Iceland  poppies  are  beautiful.  Time 
 to  plant  them  right  now.  If  you  plant 
 them  now,  they'll  start  blooming  and 
 they'll  bloom  all  through  the  winter  and 
 the  spring.  They  want  sun.  Uh  you  can 
 see  one  is  starting  to  bloom  here.  I 
 would  buy  them  like  this  as  long  as  they 
 look  healthy  and  they  have  a  one  or  two 
 flowers.  That  means  more  are  coming.  I 
 don't  like  it  when  they're  already  in 
 full  bloom.  I'm  looking  for  flowers  that 
 maybe  you  see  the  hint  of  what's  to 
 come.  One  that's  really  popular  and 
 comes  in  all  different  kinds  of  colors 
 and  maybe  the  most  popular  winter  annual 
 are  pansies.  really  vibrant  colors, 
 purple,  yellow,  and  white  with  purple. 
 There's  probably  500  different  varieties 
 of  pansies.  And  the  individual  nurseries 
 sell  the  ones  they  like  the  best.  Pretty 
 easy  to  grow.  They  need  sun.  This  is  not 
 something  you're  going to  plant  in  the 
 shade.  Again,  we  can  get  it  looking  good 
 in  the  fall.  We  can  get  them  blooming. 
 That's  kind  of the  key.  If  you  wait  till 
 it's  cold  and  you  plant  pansies,  it's 
 probably  not  going  to  do  much  till  the 
 spring.  But  if  you  plant  them  now  while 
 we  still  have  some  warmth  and  get  them 
 going,  get  them  rooted.  You  can  have 
 flowers  fall,  winter,  and  spring.  Look 
 at  this  selection.  You  can  tell  what's 
 the  biggest  selling  winter  annual  by  how 
 many  they  have.  These  are  violas,  just 
 like  a  pansy,  but  dwarf.  You  take  care 
 of  them  the  same  way.  Have  a  lot  of  nice 
 colors.  They're  not  as  quite  as 
 vigorous,  a  little  more  delicate,  but 
 same  thing,  full  sun,  get  them  growing 
 now.  Use  blend,  use  penetrate,  and 
 they'll  take  off  and  bloom  for  you  for 
 quite  a  while.  There  are  certain  annuals 
 that  you  should  not  plant.  Now,  don't  go 
 to  the  nursery  and  buy  these.  It's  a 
 trick.  Zenyas  are  for  the  spring  and  the 
 summer  and  will  not  do  well  in  the 
 winter.  Cold  weather  kills  them.  So,  all 
 the  salvas,  these  are  more  things  you 
 wouldn't  plant  now.  Cold  weather  knocks 
 them  back.  This  isn't  something  that'll 
 look  good  in  the  winter.  This  is  going 
 to  be  just  spring  and  summer  color. 
 It's  Vinka.  Vinka,  the  annual  is  a  great 
 example,  classic  example  of  one  not  to 
 plant  in  the  fall.  When  you  get  cold 
 weather,  powy,  it's  gone.  So,  we  use  it 
 as  an  annual  that  we  remove  about  now 
 and  replace  with  something  that'll  bloom 
 in  the  fall  and  the  winter  and  early 
 spring. 
 They've  planted  a  bunch  of  bagonas  here. 
 Beonas  are  more  summer  annuals  and  they 
 they  planted  these  a  while  ago  and 
 they're  blooming,  but  they're  going  to 
 have  to  change  these  for  fall  and 
 winter.  Because  they  have  these 
 pineapple  guava,  they'll  be  using  an 
 annual  that  does  well  in  the  shade.  If 
 you  want  to  learn  more  about  what  you 
 should  and  shouldn't  do  in  the  fall, 
 check  out  this  video  here. 
 [Music]

---

 Are  you  tired  of  dealing  with  brown, 
 dead  grass  that  requires  all  kinds 
 [music]  of  maintenance?  What  if  Chip  and 
 I  told  you  that  a  garden  like  this  could 
 be  an  ultimate  beautiful  lowmaintenance 
 escape  for  you?  [music] 
 Today,  I'll  show  you  around  and  give  you 
 an  idea  how  we  transformed  this  garden 
 from  this 
 to  this.  The  owners  had  the  concept  of 
 something  close  to  what  is  being  called 
 these  days  a  zeros  escape,  meaning  a  dry 
 landscape.  We  interpret  zeroscape  to 
 mean  a  dry  landscape  that  doesn't 
 necessarily  look  dry.  We  want  it  to  look 
 attractive,  not  just  like  a  bunch  of 
 cactus  and  a  bunch  of  rock.  And  there 
 are  a  lot  of  plants  that  you  can  pick 
 that  bloom,  hardly  require  any  water, 
 but  create  something  that  doesn't  look 
 too  zeroscapy. 
 The  yard  before  was  always  a  challenge. 
 The  sun  really  beats  down  on  this  part 
 of  the  lawn.  Honest,  I  was  out  here 
 every  week  fixing  a  sprinkler.  It  was 
 just  a  timeconsuming 
 uh  challenge  to  keep  this  this  part  of 
 the  lawn  looking  good. 
 >> It  was  not  pretty  to  look  at.  And  we 
 weren't  able  to  use  the  lawn  anyway.  We 
 didn't  throw  frisbes  on  that  side  lawn. 
 We  we  didn't  have  dogs  running  around  on 
 it.  And  frankly  during  the  summer  it 
 seemed  horribly  wasteful  to  be  watering 
 it  all  the  time. 
 >> So  when  was  enough  enough? 
 >> I  think  it  was  the  middle  of  this  past 
 winter  when  we  were  only  able  to  water 
 once  a  week.  Why  bother?  We  were  just 
 going  to  have  another  dead  lawn  with 
 broken  sprinklers  this  summer.  So  we 
 turned  the  water  off  alto  together.  And 
 then  it  became  distressingly  dead  and 
 that  pushed  us  obviously  over  the  edge 
 towards  getting  it  done. 
 >> As  Yogi  Baris  said,  if  you  come  to  a 
 fork  in  the  road,  take  it.  We  removed 
 the  grass  and  immediately  found  a  big 
 issue  which  is  we  think  a  reason  the 
 grass  struggled.  Incredible  root  mass 
 from  existing  trees.  You  can  see  a  big 
 camper  tree  here  that  looks  like  it's 
 been  here  100  years  or  so.  and  then 
 these  big  southern  magnolia.  So,  we  did 
 remove  surface  roots,  which  can  be  done 
 on  existing  trees  if  you're  relatively 
 careful  about  it  and  don't  go  overboard. 
 And  then  we  had  to  put  in  a  a  drip 
 system  because  that's  part  of  the  low 
 water  using  protocol.  With  the  lawn, 
 they  had  sprinklers  that  were  throwing 
 water  everywhere.  We  put  in  a  new  system 
 that  just  delivers  water  to  each  plant. 
 big  maintenance  saving  because  you're 
 not  throwing  water  everywhere  and  you're 
 not  going  to  have  weeds  everywhere.  It 
 does  save  money  if  water  is  expensive 
 and  it  also  saves  money  if  you're  paying 
 for  maintenance. 
 >> We  were  so  excited  to  be  able  to  work 
 with  John  Valentino  to  design  and 
 execute  such  gorgeous  landscaping.  We 
 wanted  something  that  really  tied  both 
 the  the  drought  tolerant  part  of  our  our 
 our  property  with  with  the  with  the 
 grass  part  that  we  maintain.  And  Nora 
 had  some  great  ideas  about  that, 
 including  this  nice  little  pathway  that 
 you  you  see. 
 >> We  really  wanted  to  traverse  the  yard 
 within  the  yard  and  lead  people  from  one 
 place  to  another,  starting  from  the 
 driveway  towards  the  back  of  the 
 property  all  the  way  to  the  front  door. 
 We  never  had  a  link  and  now  we're  able 
 to  move  from  place  to  place  and  it 
 invites  you  to  take  a  look  and  go 
 through  it  almost  like  a  magical  journey 
 and  everyone  who  visits  says,  "Wow."  And 
 they  do  take  the  path  and  then  all  the 
 stray  cats  in  the  neighborhood  do  the 
 same  thing  and  we  see  them  walking  the 
 path.  It's  hilarious. 
 >> The  pathway  is  magical.  It  is  magical. 
 >> Yeah,  we  like  to  walk  down  the  path. 
 Sometimes  we'll  just  come  outside  and 
 walk  down  the  path.  Seriously,  we  do 
 because  it's  fun.  Last  night,  I  saw  a 
 young  man  actually  look  up  from  his 
 phone  [laughter] 
 >> while  he's  walking.  I  was  stunned. 
 Suddenly  realized  something  pretty  was 
 nearby. 
 >> So,  he  actually  looked  up  from  his  cell 
 phone. 
 >> Yeah,  that  was  a  rarity  these  days. 
 >> No,  it  was  it  it  truly  happened  last 
 night  and  I  thought  that  was  a  sign. 
 >> This  path  we  put  in  our  edging,  which  we 
 used  permalock  in  this  case,  and  it's 
 very  easy  to  install.  We  only  did  about 
 an  inch  or  two  of  base  rock.  Then  we  did 
 about  inch  and  a  half,  2  in  of 
 decomposed  granite.  We  compacted  it. 
 This  rock  is  a  3/4  inch  called  Yuma.  We 
 put  it  on  top  of  the  DG  and  we  used  a 
 vibratory  compactor.  We  kind  of  set  the 
 rock  in  the  DG  so  that  it  doesn't  move 
 around  a  lot  and  then  use  the  edging  to 
 contain  it  so  it  doesn't  go  into  the 
 other  rock.  relatively  inexpensive  to 
 install,  easy  to  maintain. 
 >> I  have  so  many  favorite  parts  here.  It's 
 hard  to  pick.  We  were  waiting  on  these 
 Santa  Barbara  Salvia  to  to  finally 
 bloom,  and  my  god,  the  last  two  weeks, 
 they've  just  exploded  in  in  in  this 
 beautiful  color  of  theirs.  But  I'm  a  big 
 buganilia  fan,  as  is  Nora.  And  uh  we've 
 got  buganvilia  spotted  throughout  the 
 landscape,  and  we  really  like  that  a 
 lot.  and  the  little  bambino. 
 >> And  the  bambino,  [laughter] 
 >> the  the  three  that  are  there,  the 
 surprise  uh  bambino  bugilia  that  we 
 planted  under  the  main  window  of  the 
 living  room  and  the  precious  apricot 
 color  is  so  beautiful  with  the 
 variegated  leaves  that  that's  very 
 special  and  and  unexpected.  Frankly, 
 >> another  thing  that  passers  by  always  say 
 that  you  have  you  may  have  different 
 colors  and  we  really  like  that. 
 >> And  people  talk  about  the  blush  pink. 
 They  stop  and  look  and  ask.  They  really 
 are  extraordinary  because  most  of  the 
 crepe  myrtles  in  this  neighborhood  are 
 of  the  magenta.  They're  bright  bright 
 pink.  And  this  is  totally  different  and 
 subtle  and  with  the  very  dark  leaves, 
 it's  just  gorgeous.  and  the  various 
 colors  of  the  Lantana.  We  chose  the 
 lavender  and  the  white.  And  then  the  ice 
 cap  roses  here  right  behind.  They  are 
 stunning.  Throughout  the  summer  when  our 
 normal  roses,  our  hybrid  tea  roses  are 
 failing  because  of  the  excessive  heat  of 
 July  and  August.  The  ice  caps  are 
 blooming  like  crazy.  We  have  the  maple 
 to  frame  the  front  window  to  match  the 
 maple  that  was  already  there. 
 Mexican  bird  of  paradise  was  such  an 
 unusual  thing  for  us.  We  had  never  seen 
 it.  We  never  realized  that  was  the  name 
 of  the  plant.  But  look  at  this  gorgeous 
 plant  that  blooms  with  various  shades  of 
 orange.  And  it  creates  this  fiery  splash 
 in  the  yard.  And  right  in  front  of  the 
 giant  camper  tree,  it  has  this 
 magnificent  effect.  And  then  the  box 
 hedge.  We  are  so  pleased  with  our  little 
 boxwoods  because  they  now  create  this 
 elegant  line  along  the  driveway  and 
 demarcate  the  spaces.  And  we  finally, 
 thanks  [snorts]  to  this  Soma  gravel, 
 have  a  uniform  look  to  everything.  But 
 the  elegance  of  all  this  landscaping, 
 it  truly  says  something  about  uh  just 
 care  for  one  where  one  lives  and 
 enjoying  where  one's  one  lives  and 
 wanting  to  share  it  with  other  people. 
 >> And  don't  forget  the  kumquat. 
 >> And  the  kumquat, 
 >> our  little  kumquat.  [laughter] 
 We  insisted  on  a  kumquat  cuz  I  we  love 
 them  so  much.  And  this  guy  was  very  tiny 
 when  he  first  went  in,  but  he's  slowly 
 but  surely  he's  maturing  and  growing. 
 And  we  can't  wait  till  he  starts 
 producing  those  tart  little  kumquats 
 that  we  love  so  much. 
 >> And  we  didn't  even  leave  this  little 
 patch  alone.  We  wanted  it  to  be  like  the 
 rest  of  the  parkway.  But  it  is  different 
 because  it's  it  has  this  incredible 
 butterfly  bush  that  was  a  riot  of  color 
 back  in  August  and  still  maintains  some 
 even  in  September. 
 >> If  someone  wanted  to  redo  their  lawn, 
 you  know,  make  it  drought  tolerant  and 
 beautiful  at  the  same  time,  we  would 
 wholeheartedly  advise  them  to  do  so.  We 
 have  the  the  work  that  John  and  his  crew 
 did  here  is  just  magnificent  and  it's 
 it's  it's  responsible.  It's  beautiful 
 and  it  uh  you  really  made  a  nice  space 
 for  us  and  we  love  it  so  much. 
 >> We  really  do.  It  it  truly  changes  the 
 way  you  interact  with  your  own  home  and 
 enjoy  it  so  much  more.  We  can't  speak 
 highly  enough  about  making  this  change. 
 >> So,  if  you're  inspired  by  this  neat 
 zeroscape  garden,  here's  three  things 
 you  should  do  and  three  things  to  avoid. 
 With  a  zercape  garden,  one  important 
 thing  is  [music]  how  you  water  it. 
 Doesn't  make  sense  to  water  it  like  you 
 would  water  a  lawn.  So,  you  really  need 
 a  system  that  delivers  water  judiciously 
 and  directly.  Don't  keep  your  same 
 sprinkler  system  that  threw  water 
 everywhere  on  your  lawn.  Instead,  use 
 something  water  efficient  that  delivers 
 water  directly  to  the  plant.  It's  real 
 important  with  [music]  a  zeroscape 
 garden  to  maximize  the  health  of  your 
 soil  because  that  will  minimize  the 
 amount  of  water  that  you  need  and  that's 
 the  whole  point  of  a  zercape  garden  and 
 it  will  maximize  bloom  and  vitality. 
 You'll  be  doing  all  kinds  of  things  at 
 once.  So  here  we  used  our  John  and  Bob's 
 blend  and  our  penetrate  liquid 
 biotiller.  That's  a  great  way  to 
 maximize  the  health  of  your  soil.  In 
 this  case,  we're  in  somewhat  sandy  soil. 
 So,  it's  been  extremely  effective.  I 
 think  [music]  a  really  useful  and 
 important  part  of  a  Zercape  garden  is 
 let's  make  it  more  than  just  landscaping 
 to  look  at  from  the  street.  Let's  make 
 it  a  garden  we  can  walk  through,  a 
 garden  we  can  sit  in  and  talk  [snorts] 
 with  neighbors,  a  garden  that  uh  allows 
 us  to  use  it.  You  might  have  heard  me 
 say  before,  gardens  are  for  people.  And 
 that's  what  you  should  keep  in  mind  when 
 you're  designing  your  zeroscape  garden. 
 Don't  use  cheap  [music]  plastic  edging. 
 It  doesn't  hold  its  shape  well.  Even 
 though  it's  cheaper,  it's  not  worth  it 
 in  the  long  run.  It  produces  an  inferior 
 look  and  an  inferior  product.  So, 
 [music]  the  whole  point  of  a  zercape 
 garden  is  not  to  plant  things  that 
 require  a  lot  of  water.  Don't  plant 
 redwood  trees.  They  they  need  a  lot  of 
 water  in  the  summer.  Don't  plant  weeping 
 willows.  That's  the  most  water  thirsty 
 tree  you  could  plant.  So  don't  use 
 inappropriate  plants.  Focus  on  a  plant 
 pallet  made  up  of  California  natives  or 
 if  you're  not  in  California,  where 
 wherever  you're  native  to,  and 
 Mediterranean  uh  plants  that  uh  do  well 
 without  water  in  their  native  habitat. 
 Don't  overplant  the  garden.  And  don't 
 use  plants  that  dominate  the  garden 
 because  of  their  massive  size.  You  know, 
 if  you're  planting  a  zeroscape  garden,  I 
 don't  think  for  the  most  part  it  should 
 be  things  you  have  to  prune  and  and  make 
 into  shapes.  We  want  them  to  be  their 
 natural  form.  So,  in  order  to  allow 
 plants  to  just  grow  without  controlling 
 pruning,  you  need  to  be  very  conscious 
 of  not  picking  things  that  get  too  big 
 for  the  garden.  Look  at  what  it  looked 
 like  right  after  we  planted  it.  You 
 might  be  tempted  to  plant  more  plants 
 because  all  you  saw  was  rock,  but  we 
 didn't  want  a  rock  garden  here.  We 
 wanted  one  featuring  really  nice  plants. 
 So,  the  temptation  was  let's  plant  more. 
 Well,  we  didn't  plant  more  and  look  at 
 as  it's  growing.  And  this  is  just  after 
 a  few  months.  Let  them  grow.  Let  them  uh 
 attain  their  natural  form.  That  is  not 
 the  only  list  of  things  [music]  to  avoid 
 in  a  landscape  design.  You  can  make  some 
 mistakes  when  designing  your  garden  that 
 can  become  costly,  maintenanceheavy,  and 
 allaround  bad.  I  talk  much  [music]  more 
 about  that  in  this  video  here. 
 >> [music]

---

 This  is  me  in  a  garden  at  around  11  or 
 12  years  old.  That's  how  long  I've  been 
 into  [music]  landscaping.  I  went  to  UC 
 Berkeley  to  be  trained  as  a  landscape 
 architect  and  I  have  never  stopped 
 gardening  since.  So,  in  today's  video,  I 
 want  to  give  you  the  most  important 
 points  that  I've  learned  in  60  years 
 [music] 
 of  landscaping.  So,  you  won't  have  to 
 use  60  years  to  get  the  same  knowledge. 
 [music]  In  this  garden,  there's  not  much 
 of  a  problem  with  weeds,  and  we  think  a 
 lot  of  the  reason  is  a  constant  about 
 2-in  layer  of  mulch  that's  retained  or 
 maintained.  Here,  we've  used  the  double 
 ground  shredded  cedar,  which  I  like  as  a 
 as  a  mulch  that  stays  put.  If  you  have  a 
 gardener,  a  lot  of  mulches  just  blow 
 away,  whereas  this  kind  of  you  can  see 
 it  kind  of  cements  together  and  um  and 
 stays  put  well.  [music]  So  nothing's 
 more  frustrating  than  having  bad 
 neatodes.  Nematodeses  that  eat  the  roots 
 of  your  plants.  The  traditional  ways  of 
 treating  bad  neatodeses  is  with  more  and 
 more  toxic  chemicals.  And  that  usually 
 renders  the  soil  pretty  much  useless. 
 Even  if  you  get  rid  of  the  bad  neatodes, 
 it  damages  the  soil  so  severely.  Bad 
 neatodes  are  best  controlled  by  good 
 neatodes.  And  that's  why  building  your 
 soil  with  complex  soil  life  is  the  way 
 to  avoid  bad  neatodes.  All  our  products, 
 that's  the  whole  point  is  we're  going  to 
 build  it  with  life  that  can  get  rid  of 
 the  bad  neatodes.  Good  neatodes  are  are 
 the  way  to  go.  And  applying  them  early 
 morning,  late  evening  in  water,  fairly 
 easy  process,  maybe  as  often  as  once  a 
 year  in  the  early  spring.  a  straight 
 line  [music] 
 or  very  direct  practical  lines  are 
 better  than  saying,  "Well,  I  need  to  be 
 creative  here,  so  I'm  going  to  have  this 
 wrap  around  here  and  have  this  curly 
 queue."  And  you  know,  that's  not  really 
 creativity.  I  don't  I  don't  think  I 
 think  it's  good  to  be  aware  that  a 
 straight  line  can  serve  you  very  well. 
 When  we  walk  through  this,  you'll  see 
 there's  lots  of  straight  lines  here.  And 
 that's  not  saying  that  you  couldn't  have 
 a  more  free  form  design  and  have  it  be 
 very  simple  and  attractive  also,  but  we 
 thought  this  house  lent  itself  well  to 
 straight  lines. 
 Really,  [music]  it  doesn't  matter  the 
 plant.  An  effective  strategy  for  noise 
 is  to  try  to  have  more  than  one  level, 
 similar  to  what's  done  here.  You  start 
 with  a  3  or  4ft  screen,  go  to  about  a 
 five  or  six  foot  screen,  then  go  to 
 about  a  10  to  15t  screen,  and  you're 
 directing  those  sound  waves  up  over  the 
 area  you  want  to  keep  the  noise  out  of. 
 What  will  improve  iron  [music] 
 chlorosis?  Iron  chlorosis  is  kind  of  a 
 technical  term.  It  means  the  leaves  are 
 yellow.  Even  when  you  have  iron 
 chlorosis,  usually,  not  100%  of  the 
 time,  but  usually  your  soil  has  plenty 
 of  iron.  for  one  reason  or  another,  your 
 plants  can't  uptake  the  iron  even  though 
 it's  in  the  soil.  Usually,  you've 
 already  tried  putting  more  iron  in  the 
 soil  and  you  still  have  iron  chlorosis. 
 So,  what  we  want  is  soil  that  allows 
 plants  to  uptake  everything  that's  in 
 it.  And  the  best  solution  for  that  is  a 
 solution  you'll  hear  me  talk  about 
 frequently,  which  is  soil  rich  in  life. 
 Soil  microbes  make  nutrients  available 
 to  plants  by  breaking  down  organic 
 matter  through  mineralization.  And  so 
 we're  trying  to  address  this  imbalance 
 of  minerals,  even  though  we  don't  know 
 exactly  what  the  imbalance  is.  What  we 
 want  to  avoid  in  every  situation  in 
 gardening  is  interfaces.  And  that  is 
 where  you  have  material  of  a  certain 
 texture  where  it's  soil  whether  it's 
 soil  or  gravel  or  whatever  interfacing 
 with  a  completely  different  texture.  And 
 in  this  case,  if  we  put  a  bunch  of 
 gravel  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot  and  then 
 we  fill  the  rest  up  with  a  really  good 
 quality  potting  soil,  that  potting  soil 
 will  not  drain  into  and  through  the 
 gravel  until  the  top  layer,  which  is  a 
 completely  different  texture,  becomes 
 saturated.  It  doesn't  just  go  through 
 the  soil  and  go  through  the  rock  because 
 of  the  differences  in  tension  and 
 texture.  It  needs  to  become  saturated 
 first.  And  we  don't  want  saturation.  We 
 want  drainage.  So,  you  are  impeding 
 drainage  when  you  put  a  layer  of  gravel 
 like  this.  We  want  [music]  certain 
 plants,  but  they  take  shade,  but  you 
 plant  them  in  the  sun  and  you  think  you 
 can  make  them  grow.  You  probably  can 
 make  them  grow,  but  takes  more  water. 
 Every  time  you  use  more  water  in  a 
 garden,  that's  higher  maintenance 
 because  you  have  more  weeds.  You  have 
 more  chance  of  diseases  and  fungal 
 diseases  of  all  kinds.  When  we  limit 
 water,  we  limit  maintenance.  In  this 
 garden,  we've  limited  water  through  the 
 plant  pallet  and  the  design.  [music] 
 Does  your  dog  walk  into  your  house  with 
 muddy  paws  or  covered  in  dirt?  We  have  a 
 couple  of  tricks  to  solve  that 
 frustrating  reality.  One  of  the 
 important  things  we  did  is  instead  of 
 using  mulch  or  leaving  it  dirt  all 
 around  the  plants,  we  used  a  3/4  inch 
 rock.  That  makes  it  so  he  doesn't  seem 
 to  want  to  dig  in  the  rocks.  And  Petey 
 has  a  reputation  for  digging. 
 Chip,  the  angel  that  he  is,  doesn't  do 
 much  digging.  One  thing  that's  important 
 there  is  to  make  those  rocks  big  enough. 
 There's  a  lot  of  of  gravel  or  rock  being 
 used  in  landscapes  that's  3/8  and  they 
 still  tend  to  dig  in  that.  But  if  you 
 can  make  it  3/4  and  bigger,  that  seems 
 to  not  prohibit  them  but  discourage  them 
 from  digging  in  it.  There's  lots  of 
 different  rocks  available.  This  is  an 
 attractive  one  called  Rainbow.  And  we 
 used  it  everywhere  we  could  use  it.  And 
 we  didn't  put  it  real  thick  because  if 
 you  don't  put  it  real  thick,  I  think 
 it's  good  for  soil,  good  for  the  plants 
 under  the  rock.  We  used  our  products  to 
 improve  that  soil  and  put  life  in  the 
 soil.  And  then  down  the  road  as  we  want 
 to  make  improvements  to  the  soil,  we  can 
 just  throw  it  on  top  of  the  rock  and 
 it'll  go  right  through  the  rock.  Healthy 
 lawns  don't  usually  get  weeds  because 
 they're  so  dense  and  healthy  that  weeds 
 can't  compete.  Some  of  you  that  have 
 supplemental  irrigation  systems,  make 
 sure  they  work  right.  They  will  apply 
 water  evenly.  You  have  head-to-head 
 coverage.  Not  where  one  sprinkler  sprays 
 to  the  spray  of  another  sprinkler,  but 
 the  spray  of  one  sprinkler  actually 
 sprays  to  the  next  sprinkler.  That's 
 head-to-head  coverage. 
 One  thing  that  can  improve  weed 
 pressures  is  low  mowing,  but  you  only 
 want  to  do  low  mowing  if  you  have  a  lawn 
 that  does  well  with  low  mowing,  like 
 some  kind  of  Bermuda  or  improved 
 Bermuda.  If  you  have  tall  fescue  or 
 other  types  of  cool  season  grass,  you 
 can't  do  low  mowing,  but  you  can  do 
 regular  mowing.  Change  the  path  that 
 you're  mowing.  And  many,  many  weeds 
 can't  tolerate  constant  mowing.  Another 
 technique  that  I  like  to  use  as  a  way  of 
 refreshing  your  lawn  either  once  or 
 twice  a  year  and  is  effective  on  weed 
 control  because  then  we  guarantee  we 
 have  dense  stand  of  grass  is  overseeding 
 in  the  fall  or  in  the  spring.  Water 
 properly,  we  mow  properly,  we  overseed. 
 And  now  with  all  this  competition,  weeds 
 don't  know  where  to  go.  They're  lost. 
 They  can't  get  in  there  unless  you  do 
 one  of  those  improperly  and  you  develop 
 these  bare  areas  and  that's  when  weeds 
 come  in. 
 So  perennial  rye  does  great  in  full  sun, 
 but  it  really  doesn't  perform  well  in 
 the  shade  like  lots  of  grasses.  In  this 
 backyard,  since  the  trees  that  are 
 shading  it  are  deciduous,  the  trees  drop 
 their  leaves  and  let  in  the  light  and 
 the  perennial  rye  needs  the  light  and 
 does  fine.  The  problem  we  have  is  we  as 
 we  get  into  next  spring  and  the  leaves 
 come  on  the  trees,  those  areas  get 
 shaded.  Nothing  grew  there  this  last 
 year.  A  really  creative  idea,  the  most 
 shade  tolerant  lawn  seed  you  can  use  is 
 a  type  of  fescue,  and  there's  several  of 
 them.  Creeping  red  fescue,  chewing 
 fescue.  Surprisingly,  they  actually  look 
 pretty  good  with  Bermuda.  It's  a  nice 
 compliment  to  a  Bermuda  lawn.  And  you 
 almost  can't  tell  it  if  you  do  a  good 
 job  of  growing  these  chewings  and  red 
 fescue.  And  that  is  the  most  shade 
 tolerant  lawn  you  can  plant.  So  if  that 
 doesn't  work,  nothing  will  work. 
 Some  of  these  have  blossom  end  rot  that 
 is  more  prevalent  on  certain  varieties. 
 Apparently  whopper  being  one  of  them.  So 
 we  picked  those.  Some  of  them  we  threw 
 away.  Some  you  can  just  cut  off  the 
 blossom  end  rot  part.  And  then  we 
 allowed  more  tomatoes  to  ripen  and  grow. 
 And  we've  got  a  bunch  of  them  growing 
 now.  And  if  you  look  on  the  bottom  of 
 all  of  these  Whopper  tomatoes,  none  of 
 them  have  blossom  in  rot.  Same  tomato 
 plant.  No  more  blossom  in  rot.  It's  not 
 all  about  the  calcium  in  the  soil 
 because  the  soil  is  exactly  the  same. 
 It's  more  like  the  plant's  inability  to 
 uptake  it.  And  that  could  be  caused  by  a 
 lot  of  different  things  including 
 environmental  factors.  probably  a  hot 
 spell  or  a  spell  where  they  were  watered 
 too  much  or  watered  not  enough.  Hard  to 
 say,  but  some  environmental  factor,  not 
 a  soil  factor,  is  the  reason  why  we  had 
 some  blossom  in  rot.  [music] 
 You  know,  most  people  when  they  think  of 
 roses  think  of  hybrid  tea  roses  which 
 supposedly  have  all  these  rules  around 
 pruning  and  those  rules  can  be 
 intimidating  for  people  and  sometimes 
 make  it  so  people  don't  want  a  rose  like 
 a  hybrid  tea  because  they  think  they 
 don't  know  enough  about  roses  to  do  so. 
 I  once  went  to  a  rose  pruning  seminar 
 and  he  said,  "If  you  don't  know  anything 
 about  roses  and  all  you  did  is  just 
 grabbed  it  all  and  bunched  it  together 
 and  cut  off  twothirds  of  it,  you'd  be 
 doing  great  and  the  rose  would  respond 
 fine.  It  wouldn't  meet  any  of  the  very 
 exacting  standards  of  properly  pruning 
 hybrid  tea  rose,  but  it  would  perform 
 great.  Don't  change  [music]  your  potting 
 soil  every  year.  And  this  is  what  I 
 might  call  a  garden  myth.  It's  one  that 
 many  garden  centers  promote  because  it's 
 thought  that  if  you  are  growing  things 
 in  pots  that  mine  the  soil,  the  soil 
 leeches  very  dramatically.  But  I  like  to 
 use  ways  of  enriching  that  soil  so  that 
 you  don't  need  to.  And  it's  a  lot  of 
 expense  and  a  lot  of  work  to  be  changing 
 potting  soil  all  the  time  in  containers. 
 We  infuse  that  soil  with  life  on  an 
 annual  and  maybe  even  semianual  basis 
 with  our  products  like  blend  and  our 
 penetrate  liquid  biotiller.  So  by  having 
 this  light  soil  in  pots  that  is 
 constantly  rejuvenated  with 
 not  only  nutrients  but  beneficial 
 bacteria,  good  fungi,  prozzoa  and  all 
 kinds  of  life  in  the  soil.  Then  we  are 
 able  to  have  soil  that  doesn't  need  to 
 be  replaced.  It  might  need  to  be  topped 
 off  now  and  then  because  you  will  get 
 some  settling. 
 [music]  Now,  let's  say  you  get  a  really 
 good  quality  landscape  fabric  and  you 
 put  it  around  plants  in  the  first  month 
 or  two  as  that  landscape  fabric 
 functions  just  the  way  it's  supposed  to 
 function,  which  is  allow  a  good  exchange 
 of  air  and  water,  it's  probably  fine. 
 It's  not  something  um  that  I  would 
 recommend,  but  I  think  it  would  function 
 fine  because  the  landscape  fabric  is  new 
 and  it's  clean  and  we  can  get  that  air 
 and  that  water  to  go  right  through  it 
 just  like  it's  supposed  to.  But  over 
 time,  the  problem  with  landscape  fabric, 
 particularly  if  you  put  it  right  up 
 against  plants,  is  it  inhibits  the 
 ability  of  the  plant  to  get  water.  that 
 fabric  gets  a  little  bit  plugged  either 
 with  soil  or  decomposing  mulch  or  a 
 whole  variety  of  things  and  over  time 
 that  fabric  becomes  less  and  less  able 
 to  exchange  air  and  water.  As  that 
 happens,  it's  it's  not  good  for  plants. 
 You  could  uh  respond  by  saying  uh  well, 
 we'll  keep  a  big  open  area  around  the 
 plants  so  that  we  won't  have  that 
 delletterious  effect  right  around  the 
 roots  of  the  plants.  But  landscape 
 fabric  right  around  plants  usually  is  a 
 problem  down  the  road.  Not  the  day  you 
 put  it  in  um  but  somewhere  down  the  road 
 as  that  fabric  becomes  compromised  by 
 soil  and  decomposing  matter  of  all 
 kinds.  The  other  thing  that  happens  is 
 as  you  as  these  plants  start  to  grow, 
 you  get  a  lot  of  root  growth  and  you  get 
 damage  to  the  fabric  that  way  where  it 
 starts  becoming  kind  of  a  mess  mixed  in 
 with  roots.  And  so  it's  really  doesn't 
 work  well.  My  experience  is  it  does  not 
 work  well  at  all  in  planted  areas.  I 
 would  avoid  it  completely. 
 The  number  one  thing  you  need  to  grow  a 
 beautiful  garden  is  healthy  soil.  That's 
 what  allows  your  our  jasmine  and  cape 
 honeysuckle  and  your  fotinia  and  your 
 hibiscus  to  thrive  and  bloom  properly 
 and  not  have  pest  and  disease.  I  don't 
 know  if  you've  been  to  a  native  plant 
 community,  let's  say  like  a  redwood 
 forest.  Why  is  it  in  a  redwood  forest? 
 Everything  looks  healthy.  There's  no 
 aphid.  Nobody's  putting  on  any  types  of 
 pesticides  or  fungicides.  It's  a  self- 
 sustaining  plant  community  because  the 
 soil  is  being  fed  by  the  native  plant 
 community  and  that  soil  is  rich  and  that 
 soil  is  full  of  life,  beneficial 
 bacteria,  fungi,  good  protozoa,  good 
 neatodes  and  that's  what  we're  after  in 
 our  gardens  around  our  house  in  your 
 garden  in  order  to  take  care  of  it  in  a 
 lazy  way.  You're  going  to  get  great 
 benefit  from  soil  rich  in  microbiology. 
 And  the  way  to  make  your  soil  rich  in 
 microbiology  is  to  either  use  compost, 
 compost  tea  or  our  concentrated  products 
 where  we  take  parts  of  compost  and 
 compost  tea  and  we  use  them  in  very 
 simple  products  that  you  can  apply 
 topically.  in  my  life  here  in  recent 
 years,  I've  started  eating  healthier 
 >> and  by  eating  healthier,  I'm  not  having 
 to  take  the  medications  that  I  used  to 
 take  in  abundance 
 >> to  compensate  for  that  unhealthy  eating. 
 And  I  don't  see  really  a  difference  in 
 that  and  and  the  great  products  that  I 
 of  yours  that  I  use  in  the  in  the  yard. 
 >> That's  an  excellent  analogy.  It's 
 exactly  the  same  thing.  We're  trying  to 
 um  you  know,  put  yogurt  in  your  soil. 
 You  know,  we're  trying  to  build  the 
 microbiology 
 like  you're  trying  to  build  it  in  your 
 own  gut.  And  that's  the  key  to  good 
 health  for  people  and  good  health  for 
 plants.  Now,  all  these  tips  are  great 
 and  will  make  you  [music]  as  good  as  a 
 professional  gardener  if  you  use  them 
 properly.  But  another  big  part  of 
 building  thriving  gardens  is  knowing 
 what  fertilizer  to  use  and  not  to  use. 
 This  video  will  tell  you  exactly  what 
 [music]  will  help  your  soil  thrive.

---

 Does  your  lawn  look  tired  and  dreary  as 
 the  growing  season  comes  to  an  end?  Or 
 are  you  anticipating  your  lawn  turning 
 brown  as  soon  as  we  get  cold 
 temperatures?  Well,  listen  up.  Excuse 
 me,  Chip.  There's  a  technique  that  not 
 everybody  knows  that  will  make  your  lawn 
 go  from  looking  like  this  to  this. 
 We're  at  a  lawn  that  requires  this 
 special  technique  I've  been  telling  you 
 about.  And  I'm  going  to  allow  my  vice 
 president  in  charge  of  lawn  refurbishing 
 to  check  it  all  out.  Chip,  go  to  it.  To 
 achieve  this  goal  and  to  have  a  lawn 
 that  your  neighbors  will  be  jealous  of, 
 it's  important  that  we  understand  what 
 the  technique  is.  It's  called 
 overseating.  Let's  first  investigate  why 
 overseating  really  matters  for  your  lawn 
 health.  for  warm  season  grass  like  the 
 one  I'm  standing  on.  Then  that's  a 
 technique  to  keep  it  looking  good  in 
 fall  and  winter.  And  then  as  we  get  to 
 spring,  the  original  grass  will  start  to 
 take  over  and  you  mow  low  and  get  rid  of 
 the  overseed  grass.  Those  of  you  that 
 have  a  cool  season  grass,  it  is  a 
 technique  that  would  allow  your  lawn  to 
 look  great  all  year  round  because 
 sometimes  at  the  end  of  the  growing 
 season,  you  got  different  problems.  You 
 had  weeds,  you  had  fungus,  you  had  who 
 knows  what.  hopefully  none  of  those.  But 
 if  you  had  any  problems,  the  overseed  is 
 a  way  to  cure  all  of  that.  So,  what  is 
 the  easiest  way  to  overseed  it  for  the 
 fastest,  quickest  results?  Here's  what  I 
 do.  Mow  the  lawn  low  or  even  do  some 
 type  of  deatching,  but  something  that 
 will  allow  us  to  create  a  pretty  good 
 seedbed.  If  you  don't  prepare  the  lawn 
 properly  for  seed  is  it'll  just  sit  on 
 top  of  the  grass  and  doesn't  have 
 anything  to  germinate  in.  It  needs  a 
 little  bit  of  soil  or  a  little  bit  of  a 
 crevice  in  between  grass  blades.  Then 
 you  can  scatter  seed  by  hand.  For  cool 
 season  grass,  I  usually  spread  it  at 
 about  10  lbs  per  thousand.  That's  a  good 
 generous  rate.  And  you  need  to  be 
 careful  with  it  because  if  you  get  it  in 
 spots  where  you  don't  want  grass,  it'll 
 germinate  for  sure,  probably  better  than 
 in  your  lawn.  So  you  need  to  be  very 
 careful  if  you're  seating  it  by  hand. 
 And  you  also  need  to  try  to  make  it 
 even.  We  want  to  get  fairly  even 
 distribution  of  the  seed.  Warm  season 
 grass  has  a  completely  different  rate 
 and  you  wouldn't  do  that  in  the  fall. 
 Doesn't  come  up  in  the  fall.  You  would 
 be  doing  that  in  the  spring.  So  then  the 
 last  part,  really  important  part,  one  of 
 the  most  important  parts  is  watering. 
 And  one  thing  that  seems  to  be 
 misunderstood  is  you  water  completely 
 differently  than  you  would  normally 
 water  a  lawn.  We  don't  water  in  the 
 middle  of  the  night  or  early  in  the 
 morning.  We  wait  till  the  sun  comes  up 
 and  as  soon  as  it  starts  getting  warm, 
 we  start  watering  it  hopefully  more  than 
 once  a  day.  That's  the  formula  for  fast 
 germination,  warmth  and  moisture.  If  you 
 have  warmth  from  the  sun  and  then  you 
 can  keep  that  seed  moist,  it's  going  to 
 spring  up  really,  really  quickly.  So,  if 
 you  don't  have  an  irrigation  system  that 
 you  can  program  to  do  several  times  a 
 day,  you  need  to  figure  out  a  way  to  do 
 the  best  you  can,  which  would  be 
 watering  it  as  late  as  possible  in  the 
 morning.  We  don't  want  a  lot  of  water. 
 We  just  want  frequent  water  right  on  the 
 surface  to  keep  that  seed  moist  cuz  it's 
 on  the  surface.  Somewhere  in  the  7  to  21 
 day  period,  you'll  see  germination.  So, 
 those  are  the  basics.  Maybe  we  want  to 
 go  beyond  basic  and  get  this  grass  to 
 come  up  as  fast  as  possible  and  then  to 
 grow  as  green  and  full  of  vitality  as 
 possible.  I've  got  some  additional 
 tricks  to  tell  you  about  that  make  it  a 
 much  more  successful  overseed  planting. 
 I  sometimes  do  it  by  hand  on  very  small 
 jobs,  but  you  can  do  a  much  better  job 
 with  a  drop  spreader.  you  can  be  precise 
 with  the  seed  and  you  won't  have  grass 
 growing  where  you  don't  want  it,  which 
 is  very  typical  outcome  when  you  try  to 
 spread  it  by  hand.  And  then  when  you  use 
 the  drop  spreader,  it's  best  to  go  two 
 directions  and  that  way  you  don't  end  up 
 missing  a  spot.  If  you  want  to  rent  a 
 drop  spreader  for  seeding,  places  like 
 Home  Depot  have  them.  They're  not  real 
 expensive,  so  it  might  not  be  the 
 smartest  thing  to  rent  cuz  if  you  rented 
 it  two  or  three  times,  you  could  buy 
 one.  Although  I  frequently  try  not  to 
 use  it  because  on  a  big  job  it  can  be 
 expensive.  Some  kind  of  top  dress  mulch 
 right  over  the  seed.  And  that  top  dress 
 mulch  could  be  something  like  a 
 wood-based  compost.  On  the  West  Coast, 
 there's  a  product  called  a  mind.  But  all 
 over  the  country,  if  you  go  to  Lowe's 
 and  Home  Depot,  they  have  these 
 woodbased  fairly  fine  products  that  work 
 good  for  top  dressing.  And  you  don't 
 need  it  real  thick,  just  an  eighth  of  an 
 inch.  There's  two  ways  to  apply  it. 
 Screen  spreader,  which  you  can  rent  at 
 places  like  Home  Depot  usually.  And  the 
 screen  spreader  does  a  nice  job  of 
 spreading  it,  or  you  can  throw  it  on 
 with  a  shovel.  That  top  dress  mulch  is 
 great  for  conserving  moisture.  It's 
 great  for  creating  a  little  bit  of  heat. 
 So,  you  get  the  heat  and  the  moisture 
 with  a  top  dress  mulch.  And  if  you 
 recall,  those  are  the  two  keys  to  having 
 seed  that  germinates  real  quickly  and 
 thoroughly.  There  is  something  that 
 makes  a  huge  difference  on  seed 
 germination  speed  and  the  amount  of 
 seeds  that  germinate,  and  that  is  our 
 products.  A  lot  of  times  people  ask  me, 
 should  I  put  your  products  on  before  I 
 seed  or  after  I  seed?  Well,  right  on  top 
 of  the  seed.  You  put  that  seed  on,  then 
 you  put  on  the  blend  or  the  optimize, 
 whatever  you're  going  to  use,  depending 
 on  your  situation.  If  you're  going  to 
 use  a  top  dressing,  you  put  the  top 
 dress  on  and  then  you  spray  that 
 penetrate  liquid  biotiller  right  over 
 the  top  of  everything.  Both  penetrate 
 liquid  biotiller  and  blend  and  optimize 
 directly  benefit  seed.  Then  you  are 
 feeding  your  soil.  You're  feeding  the 
 new  seedlings  and  the  new  grass  all  at 
 the  same  time.  On  a  lawn  like  the  one 
 I'm  standing  on,  which  is  a  hybrid 
 bermita  lawn,  we're  going to  overseed  it 
 with  perennial  rye.  Perennial  rye  does 
 great.  It's  I  think  the  best  overseed 
 for  a  warm  season  grass.  If  you  have 
 some  shady  areas  where  the  grass  itself 
 isn't  doing  well  because  it  doesn't  get 
 enough  sun,  you  could  try  seeds  in  those 
 shady  areas  like  the  fine  fescues.  find 
 fescues  surprisingly  when  they  come  up 
 and  grow  look  a  little  bit  like  Bermuda 
 and  tolerate  much  more  shade.  And  in  a 
 warm  season  grass,  the  fine  fescues  are 
 probably  the  best  you  can  do  for  shade 
 tolerance.  Now,  if  you're  going  to 
 overseed  a  cool  season  grass,  then  I 
 usually  recommend  you  use  the  type  of 
 grass  you  want  your  lawn  to  be.  When  is 
 the  best  time  to  do  all  of  this?  Spring 
 or  fall?  If  you  do  it  in  the  fall,  when 
 in  the  fall?  The  answer  might  surprise 
 you.  In  my  opinion,  they're  both  good 
 times  to  overseed,  but  I  think  they're 
 they're  similar  because  you  can  get 
 similar  temperatures.  And  the 
 temperature  range  is  really  the  key  to 
 successful  germination.  And  some  of  that 
 might  also  depend  on  what  kind  of 
 overseating  you're  doing.  So,  if  you're 
 trying  to  get  warm  season  grass  to 
 germinate,  then  you  want  warm  weather. 
 Fall  isn't  your  deal  because  even  if  you 
 have  a  little  bit  of  warm  weather,  it 
 tails  off  quickly.  We  want  continuous 
 warm  weather  for  spring  overseeding  of 
 warm  seasoned  grass.  It  not  only  needs 
 to  germinate,  it  then  needs  to  grow  and 
 root.  If  you're  just  trying  to  refresh 
 and  regenerate  an  old  lawn  of  any  type, 
 fall  is  excellent  for  any  kind  of  cool 
 season  grass  because  the  seeds  will 
 germinate  great  and  do  well  in  mild 
 temperatures.  We  want  to  seed  say  a  cool 
 season  grass  when  highs  are  90  or  less 
 because  cool  season  grass  whether  it's 
 perennial  rye  or  fescue  or  bluegrass 
 they  don't  germinate  well  with  high 
 temperatures  70  to  90°  is  kind  of 
 perfect  for  germinating  cool  season 
 grass  for  fall  over  seeding.  Here  in  the 
 middle  of  California  we  are  starting 
 overseeding  right  now.  I'd  say  anytime 
 from  about  September  20  on  because  the 
 highs  have  cooled  down  really  all  the 
 way  to  about  November  20  cuz  we're  in  a 
 very  mild  area.  We  can  probably  overseed 
 depending  on  where  you  live.  Those  dates 
 will  vary  dramatically.  But  you  can  go 
 by  the,  you  know,  the  high  temperatures. 
 If  you  live  in  an  area  where  you  don't 
 have  temperatures  in  the  hundreds  or 
 even  above  90,  you  can  start  that  over 
 seating  pretty  much  anytime.  The  reason 
 we  don't  do  it  here  before  September 
 20th  is  because  it's  too  hot.  Seed 
 doesn't  come  up  good.  It'll  come  up  a 
 little  bit,  but  it  doesn't  come  up  at 
 the  rate  we  want.  So,  there's  one  more 
 thing  that's  really  important  for 
 ongoing  success  of  your  lawn.  I  run  into 
 some  disagreement  on  this,  but  I  believe 
 strongly  in  a  special  technique  after 
 germination  that  I'd  like  to  tell  you 
 about.  The  thing  I  like  to  do  that  I  do 
 find  some  disagreement  on,  but  I'm  a  big 
 believer  in  this.  No  matter  what  kind  of 
 lawn  you  plant,  try  to  mow  it  as  soon  as 
 possible.  Some  people  say,  "Oh,  I  want 
 to  make  sure  all  the  seeds  germinate.  I 
 want  it  to  get  tall.  I  want  I  don't  want 
 to  disturb  it."  Well,  I  don't  agree  with 
 that.  I  want  to  very  quickly  disturb  it. 
 Even  if  not  all  the  seeds  have 
 germinated,  as  soon  as  it's  tall  enough 
 to  mow  for  cool  season  grass,  you  know, 
 overseed,  that's  going  to  be  2  in  or  so. 
 Then  you  dry  out  the  lawn.  That's  an 
 important  step.  You're  doing  all  this 
 watering  now.  You  need  to  stop  that.  Dry 
 out  that  lawn.  And  as  soon  as  it's  firm 
 and  dry,  mow  it,  and  then  start  a  mowing 
 repetition  at  least  once  a  week.  Cuz 
 that  mowing  is  really  important  for  that 
 lawn  to  get  dense  and  thick  and  maybe 
 even  spread  a  little  bit,  to  out  compete 
 weeds,  and  to  just  be  healthy  and  full 
 of  vitality.  As  part  of  our  whole  soil 
 health  regimen,  right  after  that  first 
 mowing  to  make  the  lawn  as  green  as 
 possible,  we  do  one  application  of  our 
 nourish  bio  at  about  10  lbs  per 
 thousand.  Nourish  biosol  is  our  organic 
 fertilizer  and  soil  builder  made  from 
 the  bloom  of  cultured  soybean  meal  and 
 cotton  seed  meal.  And  that  combination 
 of  the  nourish  biool  mixed  with  the 
 prior  application  of  the  blend  and  the 
 penetrate  liquid  biotiller  is  a  really 
 thorough  feeding  of  your  soil  and  of 
 your  turf.  You're  ready  for  success.  The 
 fact  that  you  watch  this  video  all  the 
 way  to  now  means  that  you  care  about 
 your  lawn,  you  care  about  your  yard,  and 
 so  you  probably  would  be  interested  in 
 this  video  where  we  talk  about 
 professional  edging  and  how  important 
 edging  is  in  making  your  yard  and  your 
 lawn  look  good  and  function  properly. 
 Bye.

---

 We're  at  a  garden  here  in  the  Mterrey 
 Peninsula  with  a  local  television  icon. 
 And  like  every  other  garden,  there's  a 
 story  behind  it  and  some  things  to 
 improve. 
 >> Gary,  do  you  use  your  backyard? 
 >> I  do.  I  do.  I  love  it.  You  know,  some 
 days  here,  John,  are  beautiful  and  other 
 days  are  overcast  because  we're  so  close 
 to  the  ocean.  And  uh  you  know,  my  wife 
 loves  the  lemon  tree, 
 >> uh  the  boa. 
 Your  gardener  is  proud  of  it.  And  he  did 
 a  neat  thing.  He  He  trained  it  up 
 against  the  fence. 
 >> He  did.  He  did. 
 >> Spending  $1  in  material,  which  is 
 difficult  to  do. 
 >> Ken  Morris  is  a  great  gardener.  I  was 
 very  lucky  to  to  find  Ken  to  take  care 
 of  our  yard. 
 >> Welcome,  John,  to  my  backyard.  Maybe 
 that  would  be  the  name  of  a  good  show. 
 Welcome  to  my  backyard. 
 >> John  was  my  guest  last  night  on  my 
 television  show  that  we  do  every  Sunday 
 night.  It's  on  channel  27.10  locally 
 here  in  Monterey,  but  we  stream  it  live 
 on  the  internet  at  kmbtv.com. 
 So,  go  catch  it. 
 >> I  was  on  your  show,  but  Chip  was  also, 
 and  you  were  telling  me  that  all  the 
 calls  you  got  this  morning  were  about 
 Chip,  not  about  me. 
 >> I'm  a  big  believer  in  landscapes  kind  of 
 being  an  extension  of  your  house  and 
 improving  your  life. 
 >> It  is.  Well,  it  and  it  does  each  day 
 that  I  come  out  here  and  I  can  sit  on 
 the  couch  and  I  can  bring  my  phone  out 
 and  I  can  talk  and  it's  just  it's 
 >> Oh,  so  you  come  out  here  and  conduct. 
 >> This  is  my  It's  my  office.  Yeah.  Yeah. 
 Outside  office. 
 >> It's  perfect.  Yeah.  Allows  you  to  think 
 clearly. 
 >> It  does.  It  does.  It's  quiet  too 
 sometimes. 
 >> Yeah.  Not  today,  but  sometimes. 
 >> So,  we're  here  in  front  of  your  wife's 
 favorite  lemon  tree.  Yes. 
 >> It  looks  like  it's  coming  back  from  some 
 type  of  setback. 
 >> It  It  had  a  setback.  I  don't  And  we 
 don't  know  what  it  was,  but  it's 
 beginning  to  come  back  to  life. 
 >> Ken  was  telling  me  a  real  problem  in 
 your  garden  and  all  gardens  around  here 
 is  very  sandy  soil.  Yeah. 
 >> And 
 >> well,  we're  close  to  the  beach.  Yeah. 
 >> This  used  to  be,  you  know,  part  of  the 
 beach  here. 
 >> So,  there's  nothing  better  for  sandy 
 soil  than  to  infuse  it  with  life.  So, 
 beneficial  microbiology  of  all  kinds. 
 You've  got  another  citrus  over  there.  Or 
 is  that  a  is  that  a  lemon  also  in  the 
 pot? 
 >> I  think  it  is  in  the  pot.  Yeah. 
 >> Yeah.  And  so  that  it  looks  particularly 
 chlorotic.  Probably  rootbound.  And  you 
 have  a  lot  of  pots. 
 >> We  do. 
 >> In  pots  everything  leeches  out.  Well, 
 we're  going  to  put  it  back  in  there. 
 >> Going  to  put  it  back  in.  That's  what  I 
 need. 
 >> Put  it  back. 
 >> John,  you  know,  uh  we've  got  a  lot  of 
 succulents  here  and  my  wife  loves 
 succulents.  Is  there  anything  we  can  do 
 to  kind  of  give  them  a  little  boost? 
 >> And  you've  got  succulents  in  containers. 
 Succulents  are  kind  of  a  whole  different 
 world  in  that  they  don't  like  synthetic 
 fertilizer  and  they  don't  like 
 >> they  don't  like  dramatic  boosts.  They 
 like  very  subtle  boost. 
 >> Subtle  boost. 
 >> So,  we're  going  to  use  products  that 
 focus  on  the  soil  rather  than  products 
 that  try  to  feed  those  succulents 
 directly.  And  that's  the  best  way  to 
 treat  succulent. 
 >> I  love  it.  I  love  it.  I  can't  wait.  By 
 the  way,  John,  this  is  Jojo.  And  uh  I 
 think  she  wants  to  go  down  now  and  go 
 play  with  Chip. 
 >> I  understand  she's  seven  years  old  and 
 Chip  is  seven  years  old.  And 
 >> well  then  we  could  get  them  together. 
 >> Many  of  you  may  know  he's  my  vice 
 president  in  charge  of  sandy  soil. 
 >> Yeah,  there  you  go. 
 Okay,  John,  this  particular  plant  is 
 struggling  although  it's  coming  back  a 
 bit.  But  the  same  time  we  had  a  problem 
 with  the  lemon  tree,  we  also  had  a 
 problem  with  this  plant.  This  is  clatus, 
 which  is  a  beautiful  plant  with  a 
 spectacular  flower.  Pretty  flower. 
 >> People  love  clatus  in  Fresno.  They're 
 hard  to  grow  because  it's  just  too  hot. 
 Too  hot.  Yours  is  doing  well  and  showing 
 that  it's  coming  back  strong. 
 >> It's  coming  back  to  life. 
 >> So,  you  know,  problems  with  plants, 
 although  they  can  be  mysterious,  there's 
 not  that  many  different  things  that 
 could  be  wrong.  It's  usually  water, 
 soil,  and  you  know,  lack  of  nutrients, 
 and  maybe  some  dramatic  weather 
 condition  that,  you  know,  maybe  you  not 
 here,  but  you  might  have  a  bad  frost  or 
 something  like  that.  What  I  like  to  do 
 is  try  to  make  everything  that  you  can 
 control  as  good  as  possible.  So,  water 
 it  properly,  okay? 
 >> And  uh,  you  know,  play  it  music  every 
 now  and  then. 
 >> I  I  do  that. 
 [Music] 
 formium  or  New  Zealand  flax.  And  in 
 Fresno,  they  kind  of  all  have  leaves 
 like  this. 
 >> Since  you  have  a  milder  climate,  this 
 looks  reasonably  good,  but  still  it  can 
 look  kind  of  ratty 
 >> and  and  it's  in  a  pot.  Um  the  plant 
 around  it  isn't  doing  too  well.  Probably 
 needs  to  be  cut  back. 
 >> So,  we're  going  to  infuse. 
 >> We're  going  to  infuse.  And  that's  what 
 this  plant  will  really  benefit  from. 
 Stick  around  and  you  can  watch  me  apply 
 and  see  how  simple  it  is. 
 >> And  I  want  to  do  that,  too. 
 >> I'm  going  to  show  Gary  how  easy  it  is  to 
 use  this. 
 >> And  this  is  what  now? 
 >> This  is  blend.  So,  this  is  three  of  our 
 products  mixed  together. 
 >> Okay. 
 >> And  we  use  this  on  every  job  we  do. 
 >> And  so,  we're  making  it  easy  for  people 
 to  use  it. 
 >> And  we're  giving  these  people  a  plug. 
 >> That's  fine.  Uh  the  slogan  on  the  back's 
 pretty  good. 
 >> Oh,  the  slogan  on  the  Let's  do  this. 
 Now,  where's  this  going  to  go?  We're 
 going  to  start  with  this  lemon  uh  tree 
 in  the  pot  that's  in  need.  You're  smart 
 to  wear  gloves  because  it  is  kind  of 
 dirty. 
 >> I  don't  know. 
 >> Now,  is  that  enough? 
 >> I  I'd  use  a  little  more.  You  know,  on 
 this  product,  you  can  air  on  the  side  of 
 generosity  cuz  it  can't  burn  anything. 
 >> And  we  look  how  bad  it  looks  and  say, 
 "Hey,  let's  give  it  a  little  more." 
 >> Okay.  Do  we  water  it  after  we  put  this 
 on? 
 >> You  water  it  if  you  want  it  to  go  to 
 work  immediately,  but  you  don't  have  to 
 water  it.  You  could  just  leave  it  until 
 it  needs  water  if  you  want. 
 >> Okay.  It'll  help  the  succulents,  but 
 we're  not  doing  it  in  a  harsh  way 
 that'll  harm  the  succulents. 
 >> You  know  what  you're  really  trying  to  do 
 is  cover  the  root  zone.  And  the  root 
 zone  probably  includes  the  whole  width 
 of  the  foliage. 
 >> Start  here. 
 >> Yeah.  Yeah.  There's  roots  everywhere  in 
 there.  And  if  you  get  it  around  the 
 succulents,  it's  fine.  It's  not  going  to 
 hurt  them,  but  we're  focusing  on  the 
 clatus. 
 >> I'm  a  pro.  If  I  can  do  it,  anybody  can 
 do  it. 
 >> Excellent  for  your  lemon  tree  there.  Put 
 it  around  the  root  zone.  All  of  this 
 would  really  be  powerful  to  put  the 
 blend  product  and  then  put  some  kind  of 
 mulch  over  the  top. 
 >> Okay,  John,  I'm  all  out.  I  need  another 
 one. 
 If  you  want  to  use  our  products  for 
 color,  you'd  use  the  Nourish  BioL  that 
 has  macronutrients  in  it.  It's  the  best 
 thing  for  a  reasonably  healthy  lawn.  If 
 the  lawn  was  sick,  had  fungal  disease, 
 then  we'd  want  to  use  Blend  and 
 Penetrate  Liquid  Biochiller.  And  uh  this 
 you  put  on  I'd  say  6  to  10  lbs  per 
 thousand.  What  do  we  have  here?  Like  200 
 square  ft  at  the  most.  So  you  need  very 
 little.  Beautiful.  Full  of  life.  It's 
 kind  of  part  of  the  process.  It  really 
 kickstarts 
 building  microbiological  life  in  the 
 soil.  So  it  has  food  for  all  kinds  of 
 microbes.  It  has  beneficial  bacteria. 
 Since  it's  liquid,  it  kind  of  activates 
 those  dry  products  that  I  just  put  on 
 there.  Whoa,  there's  a  hole  in  that  pot. 
 So,  I'm  going  to  pick  certain  ones  that 
 I  want  to  see  if  we  can  uh  boost  a 
 little 
 >> Eddie  the  lazy  landscaper  usually 
 supplies  the  humor.  But  Eddie's  not 
 here.  And  so,  I  want  to  tell  you  um 
 Yeah.  And  if  it's  no  good,  we  can  blame 
 it  on  Dean  Martin. 
 >> That's  right.  Go  ahead. 
 >> A  grasshopper  goes  into  a  bar.  Okay.  and 
 he  jumps  on  the  bar  and  he  says  to  the 
 bartender,  "Give  me  a  scotch  and  soda." 
 >> The  bartender  looks  at  him  and  he  says, 
 "Hey,  we've  got  a  drink  named  after 
 you."  And  the  grasshopper  says,  "You 
 have  a  drink  named  Irving?" 
 >> I  like  that. 
 >> Pretty  good,  huh? 
 >> I  like  it.

---

 Every  summer,  it's  the  same  story  here. 
 This  lawn  gets  brown  spots  no  matter  how 
 much  they  water  or  how  much  they 
 fertilize.  If  this  lawn  situation  sounds 
 familiar,  then  stick  around  and  find  out 
 how  we  brought  this  lawn  back  to  life. 
 Before  we  get  to  the  solution,  we  want 
 to  walk  around  with  you  and  make  sure  we 
 have  a  right  diagnosis  of  the  problem. 
 There  are  dry  spots.  If  we  feel  them,  it 
 is  just  bone  dry,  dusty  actually.  But 
 they  are  puzzled  because  there's  also 
 spots  that  appear  to  be  moist.  Like 
 right  next  to  this  dry  spot  seems  to  be 
 getting  water  with  the  irrigation 
 system.  It  is  moist.  The  owner's 
 conclusion  is  that  their  irrigation 
 system  is  a  bad  one  and  outdated. 
 Probably  a  40-year-old  irrigation  system 
 that's  been  modified  here  and  there.  All 
 different  kinds  of  heads.  you  know,  it's 
 not  a  state-of-the-art  irrigation 
 system.  In  addition  to  that,  this 
 juxtiposition  of  dry  spots  with  wet 
 spots  that  look  bad  give  you  an  idea. 
 There's  some  real  soil  deficiencies  also 
 that  I  think  is  giving  them  some  kind  of 
 fungal  disease  every  year.  They  have 
 tried  fungicides,  but  they  didn't  do 
 anything.  In  fact,  they  would  probably 
 make  it  a  little  worse.  Based  on 
 everything  I've  seen,  after  I've  walked 
 around  and  inspected  everything,  I've 
 concluded  the  problem  is  lack  of  water 
 in  some  spots  and  some  type  of  fungal 
 disease. 
 Let's  see  what  our  solutions  are  and  how 
 they  were  working  out.  We  did  end  up 
 completely  replacing  this  irrigation 
 system,  but  you  really  don't  have  to  go 
 that  far.  There  are  ways  to  improve  what 
 you  have.  Even  small  adjustments  can 
 make  a  big  difference  in  your  lawn  if 
 you  follow  these  three  simple  rules. 
 So,  this  job  is  all  new  pipe,  new 
 valves,  everything.  But  these  heads, 
 they're  called  MP  rotators.  They  could 
 just  retrofit  a  system  because  they  use 
 a  lot  less  water  than  most  and  they'll 
 allow  you  to  throw  water  just  as  far  or 
 farther.  So  have  better  coverage  even  as 
 a  retrofit.  If  you  don't  want  to  replace 
 everything,  you  could  just  replace  the 
 sprinkler  heads  and  sometimes  even  just 
 the  nozzles  cuz  it  comes  in  a  simple 
 nozzle.  What  we're  doing  with  the 
 irrigation  system  is  we're  making  sure 
 we  have  head-to-head  coverage  and  very 
 even  coverage.  Head-to-head  coverage  is 
 when  the  spray  of  one  sprinkler  goes  all 
 the  way  to  the  head  of  the  next 
 sprinkler.  So,  one  improvement  that  we 
 made  is  we  put  in  6-in  pop-ups.  And  you 
 can  see  how  they  pop  way  up  over  the 
 lawn.  You  know,  over  time,  the 
 sprinklers  kind  of  low.  If  they  only  pop 
 up  2,  three,  or  4  in,  the  blades  of  the 
 grass  will  block  them.  You're  given  a 
 certain  amount  of  pressure  at  your 
 house,  and  usually  you  can't  do  anything 
 about  that  unless  you  put  in  a  booster 
 pump,  and  you  don't  want  to  do  that  in 
 just  a  residence.  It's  more  trouble  than 
 it's  worth.  But  you  can  maximize  the 
 pressure  by  using  the  fewest  amount  of 
 gallons  per  minute.  A  head  like  the  MP 
 rotator  allows  you  to  use  small  amounts 
 of  water,  which  will  boost  your 
 pressure.  If  you're  using  25  gallons  a 
 minute  and  then  you  change  your  heads 
 and  now  you're  using  12  gallons  a 
 minute,  you'll  see  your  pressure  is  way, 
 way  better.  And  if  our  pressure  is  good, 
 then  our  coverage  is  more  even.  We  want 
 that  pressure  the  same  at  the  end  of  the 
 line  as  it  is  at  the  beginning  of  the 
 line.  And  that  is  also  easier  to 
 accomplish  if  we're  using  less  gallons. 
 If  you  have  a  choice,  we  want  you  to 
 water  real  early  in  the  morning  just 
 before  the  sun  comes  out  or  as  the  sun 
 is  coming  out.  That  makes  it  so  that  the 
 water  doesn't  sit  around  all  night, 
 which  is  something  that  causes  fungal 
 problems.  While  improving  your 
 irrigation  system  is  an  important  part 
 of  improving  your  lawn,  there's  an  even 
 more  vital  step.  And  no,  it's  not  more 
 fertilizer.  In  fact,  more  chemical 
 fertilizer  can  make  your  lawn  more 
 susceptible  to  fungal  disease.  So,  the 
 real  secret  is  to  build  soil  underneath 
 your  lawn  that  can  create  its  own 
 nitrogen,  phosphorus,  potassium,  and 
 other  minerals  and  nutrients.  When  you 
 have  good  fungi  and  good  microbiology, 
 it's  much  more  powerful  than  the  bad 
 fungus  that  causes  these  big  brown  areas 
 and  the  underperformance  of  lawn.  So, 
 how  do  you  feed  your  soil  in  order  to 
 make  it  healthy?  You  have  a  number  of 
 options.  You  can  use  compost.  You  can 
 use  compost  tea.  We  use  our  products 
 which  are  like  a  concentrated  compost. 
 Right  before  we  even  started  the 
 trenching,  I  applied  our  blend  at  about 
 20  lbs  per  thousand  and  I  sprayed  over 
 it  with  penetrate  liquid  biotiller  8  oz 
 per,000  square  ft.  Then  we  did  our  work 
 as  we  put  everything  back  together.  I 
 went  ahead  and  did  another  application 
 of  blend  at  20  lbs  per  thousand  and 
 penetrate  liquid  biotiller.  And  then 
 over  the  top  of  that,  I  did  do  about  six 
 pounds  per  thousand  of  our  nourished 
 bioalt.  Nourished  bio  is  really 
 excellent  for  lawns.  It's  our  organic 
 fertilizer  made  of  dried  mcelium.  Now, 
 it's  going  to  take  a  little  bit  of  time 
 for  soil  to  get  healthy.  We  think  the 
 process  has  started  here  and  you  can 
 begin  to  see  that  in  the  way  the  lawn 
 looks.  Once  you  have  your  soil  and  your 
 watering  right,  there's  a  simple  step 
 that  can  be  important  in  revitalizing 
 your  lawn  quickly.  So  since  we  had  so 
 much  bare  dirt  here  and  new  trenches  and 
 I  wanted  to  cover  them  up  right  away,  I 
 did  overseed  with  perennial  rye  right 
 after  we  covered  all  the  trenches  and 
 right  before  I  applied  our  last 
 applications  of  blend  and  penetrate 
 liquid  biotiller  and  nourish  biosol 
 perennial  rye  is  germinating  and  while 
 the  perennial  r  is  germinating  we're 
 getting  this  bermuda  to  look  a  little 
 healthier.  It's  starting  to  spread  and 
 that's  really  what  we  want  to  happen.  We 
 used  the  perennial  rye  as  kind  of  like  a 
 little  cover  crop  to  cover  bare  areas 
 while  we  get  the  Bermuda  to  thrive  and 
 prosper  through  healthier  soil.  It's 
 mostly  just  a  monitoring  process  now  and 
 we  make  sure  everything's  working  and  we 
 address  problems  if  they  arise.  Chip 
 Valentino,  our  vice  president  in  charge 
 of  Chronically  Healthy  Lawn,  wants  to 
 invite  you  to  learn  how  to  overseed  your 
 lawn  in  the  fall  by  watching  this  video.

---

 We  track  down  fertilizers  from  every 
 decade  over  the  last  100  years.  Eddie 
 the  lazy  landscaper  and  I  will  rate 
 which  ones  are  best 
 >> and  which  ones  went  horribly  wrong. 
 >> So,  let's  quickly  start  with  the 
 prefertilizer  era.  There  was  no  Home 
 Depot,  no  garden  centers.  If  you  wanted 
 to  feed  your  garden,  you  had  to  go  to 
 the  barn. 
 >> Yes,  you  did.  for  important  things  like 
 um  horse  manure,  bat  guano,  you  know, 
 things  like  that. 
 >> There  was  a  reliance  on  manure,  kitchen 
 scraps,  cover  crops,  all  really 
 excellent  ways  to  feed  soil  and  feed 
 plants.  What  was  occurring  was  really 
 nutrient  cycling.  That's  an  excellent 
 way  to  garden.  Then  a  dusty  white  powder 
 started  showing  up  and  it's  probably 
 something  different  than  what  you're 
 thinking.  I  do  remember  the  1920s,  John, 
 because  my  favorite  rum  I  had  to  get 
 from  a  couple  of  guys  that  had  a  boat. 
 >> Yeah. 
 >> Yeah.  I  prohibition  just  darn  near  dried 
 me  out.  And  gardeners  were  putting  this 
 powder  bone  skeleton  powder  on  roses. 
 >> Skeleton  of  what? 
 >> Skeletons  of  I'm  afraid  to  ask. 
 >> Cows.  I  think  in  the  1920s  we  had  bone 
 meal  and  blood  meal.  At  the  time  it  was 
 pretty  much  regarded  as  a  good  way  to 
 fertilize  plants.  There  are  some 
 important  nutrients  and  micronutrients 
 being  provided.  It's  actually  very 
 effective.  One  of  the  concerns  I  have 
 about  both  products  is  they  both  inhibit 
 the  growth  of  microisal  fungi  which 
 really  assists  plants  in  uptake  taking 
 water  nutrients  and  it's  one  of  the  main 
 things  we  want  to  encourage.  Another 
 negative  is  it  does  encourage  wildlife 
 and  dogs  to  dig  in  the  soil.  They're 
 attracted  to  the  scent  ingested  in  good 
 quantities.  They  can  be  toxic  to  dogs 
 and  cats. 
 >> John,  when  you  talk  about  that,  I  know 
 Chip  wouldn't  want  to  hear  that,  but  it 
 maybe  this  wouldn't  be  a  highly 
 recommended  today. 
 >> In  its  time,  it  probably  was  a  pretty 
 good  product.  And  when  you  look  at  the 
 options,  it  was  probably  the  best 
 option.  Today,  I  would  give  it  a  very 
 low  rating.  What's  our  rating  scale?  1 
 to  10. 
 >> 1  to  10. 
 >> I'd  give  it  a  three  today.  By  the  1930s, 
 the  hottest  fertilizer  on  the  market 
 came  from  the  desert  of  Chile. 
 >> Well,  it  was  the  Great  Depression.  Uh, 
 when  I  think  of  the  Great  Depression,  I 
 actually  think  of  my  wife's  family's 
 reaction  to  our  getting  married. 
 >> It  came  from  salt  peter  deposits  in 
 Chile.  1930s  nitrate  of  soda.  Nitrate  of 
 soda  provides  nitrogen  without 
 acidifying  the  soil  which  is  fairly 
 unique  when  we  compare  it  to  synthetic 
 fertilizers  today.  Almost  all  of  them 
 acidify  the  soil  whether  you  want  your 
 soil  acidified  or  not.  Also  a  pretty 
 good  source  of  some  trace  elements.  Good 
 on  everything  from  roses  to  lawns.  And 
 you  know  you  had  people  beginning  to 
 hybridize  things  including  roses  and 
 develop  all  kinds  of  cultivars.  And  I 
 think  that  there  wasn't  a  lot  to  use. 
 >> And  so  when  they  did  find  a  product  like 
 this,  especially  the  more  sophisticated 
 gardeners  and  landscapers, 
 >> it  made  sense.  It  seems  like  it  might  be 
 better  than  a  two  or  a  three.  I  think 
 it's  a  pretty  practical  product  for  home 
 gardening,  especially  on  a  lawn  where 
 you're  constantly  trying  to  make  it  as 
 green  as  possible.  And  that's  what 
 nitrogen  does.  as  a  nitrogen  source  for 
 things  that  really  like  nitrogen  and 
 have  no  downsides  of  nitrogen.  I  would 
 rate  it  like  about  a  seven  or  eight.  And 
 that's  the  way  it  is. 
 >> And  that's  the  way  it  is.  I'm  Walter 
 Kronite  and  that's  the  way  it  is. 
 >> Then  World  War  II  hit  and  we  got  a 
 militaryra  boost.  So,  of  course,  the 
 first  half  of  the  ' 40s,  World  War  II, 
 as  the  war  wound  down,  John,  they 
 stopped  making  ammo  and  started  making 
 plant  food.  Talk  about  a  plot  twist.  I 
 was  going  to  say  they  asked  me  to  serve 
 and  I  said  tanks,  but  no  tanks. 
 >> The  World  War  II  time,  especially  right 
 after  World  War  II,  really  used 
 extensively  in  agriculture.  And  as  you 
 might  imagine,  something  high  in 
 nitrogen  really  got  some  results  and 
 started  a  whole  boom  in  synthetic 
 fertilizer  use.  1940  ammonium  sulfate, 
 those  chemical  sources  can  make  soil 
 more  acidic  and  can  have  some  long-term 
 negative  effects  in  salt  buildup  in 
 soil.  We're  applying  synthetic  nitrogen 
 and  it's  making  plants  grow  like  crazy. 
 So  the  natural  conclusion  is  it's  good 
 for  plants  and  everything  associated 
 with  plants. 
 >> Unfortunately,  as  we've  moved  on,  we 
 found  out  that  excessive  use  can  have 
 some  environmental  problems  with  runoff 
 polluting  our  water  table  and  our 
 groundwater. 
 >> So  what  would  you  rate  this  uh  then  and 
 would  you  use  it  today? 
 >> So  in  the  time  I  think  it  really  had  its 
 place  and  I  understand  why  it  was 
 treasured.  If  I  put  myself  in  that  time, 
 I  don't  think  I  would  be  understanding 
 the  negative  parts  of  it.  Today,  I'd 
 give  it  a  one  or  a  two.  In  the  1950s, 
 fertilizers  went  mainstream  and  one  blue 
 powder  became  a  suburban  icon. 
 >> Suburbia  was  booming.  Barbecues  were 
 being  lit.  In  some  cases,  the  people 
 barbecuing  were  being  lit.  This  was  the 
 first  real  popular  consumer  gardening 
 product  line  that  really  was  for 
 gardening.  1950s  Miracle  Grow.  Miracle 
 Grow  was  the  brainchild  of  two  ingenious 
 marketers.  Most  people  know  you  as  being 
 a  lazy  landscaper.  You  have  another 
 avocation  which  is  marketing. 
 >> This  is  ordinary  potting  soil.  This  is 
 Miracle  Grow  potting  mix.  Maybe  you  have 
 appreciated  the  key  ways  that  they 
 marketed  Miracle  Grow  and  what  seemed  to 
 be  a  model  for  many  decades  to  come. 
 >> The  50s  were  really,  I'd  say,  the 
 beginning  of  serious  advertising,  being 
 able  to  sell  the  concept  and  and  dress 
 it  up  and  whether  the  product  was  good 
 or  not.  Miracle  Grow  has  been 
 outrageously  successful  and  when  used  in 
 moderation,  it  can  address  the  goals  of 
 the  original  formulation  153015.  This  is 
 what  they  identified.  They  were  trying 
 to  do  the  best  leaf  growth  and  color, 
 root  strength  and  overall  health.  And  it 
 can  do  that  with  the  plant  itself. 
 Unfortunately,  over  the  decades,  subtle 
 problems  with  its  chemical  formulations 
 have  multiplied  into  real  negatives,  and 
 those  are  characteristic  of  almost  all 
 synthetic  fertilizers.  They  can  disrupt 
 the  soil  pH,  make  the  soil  more  acid, 
 and  it  can  lead  to  a  buildup  of  salts 
 and  chemicals  that  plants  can't  use,  and 
 more  importantly,  that  your  soil  doesn't 
 like.  Viewers,  do  you  still  use  Miracle 
 Grow  today?  It's  still  a  very  successful 
 product.  Let  us  know  in  the  comments 
 below. 
 >> Well,  John,  how  are  you  going  to  rate 
 Miracle  Grow? 
 >> Well,  Miracle  Grow  deserves  a  10  from  my 
 business  standpoint.  Uh,  you  can  do 
 nothing  but  admire  what  they've  done 
 with  the  brand,  built  it  into  iconic 
 status  and  widespread  use.  For  use 
 today,  I  rank  it  very  low.  I  would 
 probably  give  it  a  two  today.  So  Eddie, 
 there's  a  lot  of  talk  about  Miracle 
 Grow,  but  there's  really  only  one  way  to 
 have  the  greenest  lawn,  the  biggest 
 flowers,  the  most  production.  Do  you 
 know  what  that  one  way  is? 
 >> Yes,  I  do,  and  it's  to  subscribe  to  this 
 channel. 
 >> Then  the  1960s  rolled  in  with  peace  and 
 love  and  a  new  fertilizer  that  was 
 hopefully  a  little  more  loving  to  your 
 soil.  Ah,  the  1960s  the  Beatles  were  on 
 the  radio  and  they  were  also  in  my  lawn 
 at  the  time.  The  momentum  started  by 
 Miracle  Grow  in  the  ' 50s  continued  in 
 the60s.  1960  10  10  chemical  fertilizer 
 popular  because  of  its  simplicity  but 
 many  of  the  themes  that  we  established 
 in  the  earlier  decades  continued.  This 
 was  easy  to  use,  had  every  macronutrient 
 in  it  in  equal  amounts,  which  isn't 
 necessarily  good,  but  it  was  a  very 
 popular  formulation,  and  was  effective 
 at  feeding  lawn  and  plants.  Again,  in 
 the  same  way  where  it  goes  directly  to 
 the  plants  and  pretty  much  ignores  the 
 soil. 
 >> What  do  you  think  about  this  product, 
 John?  I  mean,  what  would  you  rate  it 
 then  and  now? 
 >> I  would  not  rate  it  the  same  as  its 
 formulation.  I  would  see  no  reason  to 
 really  recommend  it,  but  it  is  an 
 effective  synthetic  fertilizer.  I  would 
 give  it  a  rating  of  three  today  since  it 
 was  successful,  seven  or  eight  in  its 
 time.  So,  in  the  60s,  we  had  chemicals 
 for  our  gardens  and  for  humans.  Now, 
 into  the  70s,  we  veer  into  an  even  more 
 interesting  direction.  So  you  know  the 
 70s  I  mean  from  what  I  can  remember  uh 
 >> so  46  now  not  20some  not  10  10  10  but  46 
 that's  the  ultimate  in  nitrogen 
 formulation  1970s  ura  fertilizer  4600 
 chemical  releases  fast  and  boom  easy  to 
 burn  things  um  little  easier  to  damage 
 soil  all  the  same  problems  that  we've 
 already  talked  about  with  salt  and 
 damage  to  microbiology,  especially  if 
 you  overuse  it.  They  build  on  the  last 
 decade  with  something  even  faster,  even 
 stronger,  even  more  noticeable,  more 
 profound,  but  still  no  nod  to  the  soil 
 yet.  So,  I  think  it  earned  a  low  rating 
 then  and  now.  I  think  we  should  have 
 known  better  than  to  use  4600.  Today, 
 you  can  find  an  appropriate  use  for  it, 
 like  maybe  once  a  year,  a  week  before 
 your  party  that  you  didn't  know  about, 
 and  you  want  a  lot  of  nitrogen  to 
 release  real  fast  and  turn  that  lawn 
 real  green,  it  could  be  justified.  But 
 in  general,  as  a  as  the  most  popular 
 fertilizer  of  the  decade,  I  would  give 
 it  a  one  in  1970s  and  a  one  uh  today.  By 
 the  80s,  convenience  was  king.  And  the 
 answer  came  in  these  little  pellets. 
 >> Big  hair,  big  phones,  and  pellets  hiding 
 in  your  potting  mix.  I  remember  big 
 hair,  but  you  know,  she  still  was  a 
 really  good  real  estate  lady.  She  really 
 was. 
 >> So,  the  goal  of  this  idea  was  to  make 
 something  more  convenient  that  you 
 didn't  have  to  apply  as  much  and  to 
 eliminate  the  possibility  of  burning. 
 1980s  osmmaote  slowrelease  fertilizer 
 pellets.  Osmmaote  still  around  still 
 used  a  lot  in  containers  by  nurseries 
 but  it  really  is  a  synthetic  fertilizer 
 encased  in  resin  or  some  people  say 
 encased  in  plastic  and  and  you  see 
 residue  from  it  frequently.  I  think  in 
 many  ways  it  accomplished  its  goal  of 
 being  something  that  did  increase 
 convenience  because  it  does  release 
 slowly  and  has,  you  know,  a  lot  of  the 
 same  downsides  of  synthetic  fertilizer, 
 but  it  was  a  interesting  innovation  in 
 fertilizer,  one  that's  being  appreciated 
 even  to  this  day. 
 >> And  it  doesn't  take  up  a  lot  of  space 
 considering  the  potency  of 
 >> of  these  pellets. 
 >> That  is  a  big  difference  between  a  lot 
 of  these  other  products.  They  have  high 
 rates  of  application. 
 >> What  do  you  think  of  this  product? 
 >> Well,  Osmma  Coat's  a  pretty  darn  good 
 product.  I  would  give  it  a  seven.  It  is 
 a  synthetic  fertilizer  wrapped  in 
 plastic,  which  doesn't  sound  very  good, 
 but  it  is  an  excellent  product  that 
 solves  a  lot  of  problems  and  uh  I  I  rate 
 it  highly.  In  the  '9s,  the  advancements 
 in  fertilizer  were  all  about  the  way  we 
 apply  it. 
 >> Those  were  the  days  of  the  infomercials 
 that  promised  you  six-pack  abs.  And  this 
 product  was  featured  in  a  lot  of 
 infomercials. 
 >> I  did  get  a  liquid  application  for  my 
 lawn.  Now  the  six-pack  abs  became  more 
 pony  cake  abs  if  you  will.  1990s  liquid 
 feed  lawn  products.  Now  we've  put  it  in 
 a  format  where  it's  already  in  solution. 
 And  since  it's  in  solution,  it  works 
 really,  really  fast.  Again,  you  could, 
 if  you're  not  careful,  burn  your  lawn. 
 Chemical  fertilizer  does  all  the  same 
 things  to  soil  that  we've  been  talking 
 about.  It's  only  good  for  your  lawn. 
 Over  time,  could  result  in  lots  of  other 
 problems.  You  know,  we've  talked  about 
 the  environmental  problems  of  toxic 
 runoff,  but  also  we  have  the  problems  of 
 when  we  damage  life  in  the  soil,  then 
 we're  more  likely  to  get  fungal  disease 
 and  pests.  And  uh  so  we're  not 
 addressing  this  as  a  whole  ecosystem  of 
 soil  and  lawn.  We're  just  feeding  lawn 
 acting  like  the  soil  is  non-existent 
 >> for  the  average  homeowner  who  doesn't 
 want  to  have  to  invest  in  a  special 
 applicator  or  any  other  kinds  of 
 equipment.  This  was  ready  to  go.  All  you 
 had  to  do  is  stick  your  hose  in  here  and 
 tighten  it  up.  Everybody's  got  a  garden 
 hose.  So  again,  it  was  a  more 
 convenience  and  it  was  an  era  of 
 convenience. 
 >> I  give  it  a  pretty  low  rating.  I'm  not 
 going  to  go  any  higher  than  a  four  or  a 
 five,  but  in  terms  of  turning  your  lawn 
 green  fast,  which  is  usually  why  you 
 would  use  this  in  the  first  place,  it's 
 a  good  product.  In  the  2000s,  we  finally 
 started  realizing  what  matters  most  for 
 our  gardens  and  landscapes.  Oh,  I 
 remember  this  time  cargo  pants  became 
 popular.  In  fact,  25  years  later, 
 >> Wow. 
 >> I  still  wear  cargo  pants.  wears  cargo 
 pants.  So,  this  is  an  excellent  example 
 of  this  compostbased  fertilizer  that  was 
 much  more  ecological  in  emphasis  and 
 also  focused  on  being  safe  for  kids  and 
 pets.  2000s  organic  compost  blended 
 fertilizers.  And  when  you  look  at  the 
 ingredients  in  this,  you  see  very  low 
 macronutrients,  444,  because  you  can't 
 supply  huge  percentages  of  nitrogen  like 
 you  do  with  synthetic  fertilizer.  And 
 then  on  their  label,  they  have  all  kinds 
 of  beneficial  microbes,  microisa,  and 
 all  kinds  of  things  that  are  good  for 
 soil  and  pretty  good  for  us.  And  so, 
 it's  a  whole  new  era  in  fertilizers.  And 
 you've  got  gardeners  responding  to  this 
 and  starting  to  recognize  that  maybe  we 
 shouldn't  just  be  feeding  plants,  but  we 
 should  be  feeding  soil  and  plants.  In 
 the  2000s,  right  along  with  Dr.  Earth  is 
 when  John  and  Bob's  came  out  with  our 
 first  product,  which  was  a  soil  builder. 
 And  that's  a  way  of  improving  the  health 
 of  our  soils  with  food  for  microbes  and 
 attractants  for  microbes.  What  do  you 
 think  of  this  product? 
 >> I  would  give  it  um  a  nine.  It  would  get 
 a  10  if  it  was  a  John  and  Bob's  product, 
 but  Dr.  Earth,  I'll  give  it  a  nine. 
 2010,  not  only  phones  got  smarter, 
 something  else  got  smarter  and  started 
 taking  over  gardens  all  over  the  world. 
 >> Gosh,  smartphones, 
 smart  homes,  and  even  smarter  plant 
 food. 
 >> 2010,  smart  bioertilizers. 
 The  whole  purpose  of  bio  fertilizers  is 
 to  build  life  in  the  soil  and  make  soil 
 that  has  lots  of  complex  life.  Not  just 
 bacteria  but  bacteria,  fungi,  protozoa, 
 good  nematodeses  and  allow  the  soil  to 
 do  what  it's  supposed  to  do.  Not  only 
 feed  our  plants  but  make  it  so  our 
 plants  and  trees  and  flowers  and  lawn 
 don't  get  sick.  We  don't  get  fungal 
 disease.  That's  all  perfectly 
 implemented  by  biofertilizers. 
 Products  like  this  one  focused  on  that 
 which  has  really  interesting  ingredients 
 like  humic  extracts,  fulvic  acids,  humic 
 acids,  organic  matter,  potassium, 
 nitrogen.  So,  it's  kind  of  a  combination 
 of  biological  with  some  macronutrients 
 thrown  in. 
 >> So,  you  know,  this  has  a  lot  of  good 
 things  to  say  about  it.  I  like  all  its 
 ingredients.  So,  I  will  rate  it  an 
 eight.  So,  that  leaves  us  with  2020  to 
 today.  And  let's  just  say  it's 
 complicated. 
 >> A  lot  of  your  neighbors  are  spreading 
 chemicals.  And  the  other  half  is  brewing 
 compost  tea.  And  they  both  swear  they're 
 right. 
 >> We  think  it's  very  simple.  At  John  and 
 Bob's,  we  believe  in  a  simple  truth. 
 Feed  the  soil  and  the  plants  will 
 follow. 
 Definitely. 
 >> Ah,  there  he  goes.  After  a  100red  years 
 of  fertilizer  experimentation, 
 the  takeaway  is  simple.  Healthy  plants 
 start  with  healthy  soil.  And  if  you  want 
 healthy  soil  as  quickly  as  possible  in 
 this  video,  I  explain  how  to  improve 
 your  soil  the  lazy  way,  the  way  Eddie 
 the  lazy  landscaper  would  do  it.  You 
 didn't  ask  me  yet  to  rate  our  John  and 
 Bob's  products,  but  I  would  rate  our 
 soil  optimizer  a  10.  I  would  rate  our 
 penetrate  liquid  biotiller  10.  I  would 
 rate  our  maximize  a  10.  And  I  would  rate 
 our  newest  biosol  a

---



---

 Stop  right  there.  If  you  have  lawn 
 fungus,  don't  use  bio  advanced  fungus 
 control.  I'll  reveal  in  this  video  why 
 bio  advanced  fungus  control  doesn't  live 
 up  to  that  promise.  What  we  should  be 
 doing  for  our  soil  and  our  lawns.  And  at 
 the  end  of  the  video,  I'll  provide  you 
 one  free  thing  to  help  you  not  get 
 fungus  in  the  first  place. 
 bio  advanced  makes  it  sound  like  maybe 
 this  is  some  new  progressive  material, 
 but  when  I  look  into  it,  I  see  it's  been 
 around  since  about  1981.  That  is  about 
 the  time  that  synthetic  fungicides 
 started  being  used  dramatically  in  home 
 soils.  So,  this  is  just  another  chemical 
 fungicide  and  there's  a  lot  of  them  out 
 there.  Like  many  chemicals  being  used 
 around  our  landscapes,  around  our  homes, 
 it  doesn't  make  sense.  Why  do  we  want  to 
 use  chemicals  around  our  homes?  These 
 particular  ones  are  bad  for  pollinators. 
 They're  bad  for  our  pets.  They're  bad 
 for  waterways.  My  experience  with  using 
 products  like  this  is  that  they're 
 ineffective.  They  make  the  problem  more 
 likely  to  reoccur.  We  are  actually 
 damaging  the  very  thing  that  is  the 
 solution  to  this  problem.  Beneath  this 
 lawn  and  your  lawn,  there's  an  amazing 
 array  of  life.  There's  an  active 
 community  of  all  kinds  of  living 
 organisms.  There's  bacteria,  there's 
 fungi,  there's  prozzoa,  there's  good 
 neatodes.  When  you  spray  chemicals  like 
 bioadvanced  fungus  control,  you  are 
 negatively  impacting  that  ecosystem  of 
 tremendous  life.  So,  proponazole  is  the 
 only  active  ingredient  and  it  has  a  lot 
 of  negative  realities  to  soil  life.  It 
 inhibits  soil  enzyme  activity 
 specifically  a  decrease  in  soil 
 dehydrogenase  and  that  is  more  simply 
 called  DHA.  Now  DHA  is  a  real  important 
 indicator  of  soil  microbial  activity  and 
 overall  soil  health.  And  the  bottom  line 
 is  they're  impacting  all  the  things 
 we're  trying  to  improve  about  soil,  not 
 damage.  So  let's  not  use  chemicals  on 
 our  soil.  Let's  instead  build  healthy 
 soil.  Healthy  soil  is  the  best  combatant 
 against  all  kinds  of  pests  and  diseases, 
 including  fungal  disease.  What's  the 
 best  way  to  do  this?  Products  like 
 compost,  products  like  earthworm 
 castings,  or  you  can  give  our  products  a 
 try,  which  are  concentrated  compost,  and 
 they  build  the  soil  with  healthy  life. 
 Interestingly,  the  way  healthy  soil 
 works  is  the  good  fungi  that  we're 
 building  are  usually  way  stronger  than 
 these  problematic  disease-causing  fungi. 
 So,  what  we  want  to  do  is  build  healthy 
 life  in  the  soil  with  beneficial  fungi, 
 beneficial  bacteria,  and  those  will 
 defeat  the  weaker  disease-causing  ones. 
 As  long  as  we're  conscious  of  what  we're 
 putting  on  our  lawn,  then  we're  going  to 
 have  this  thriving,  growing  soil  food 
 web  underneath  us  that's  always  working 
 for  us.  The  whole  idea  of  a  landscape  is 
 being  closer  to  nature.  Let's  use 
 natural  techniques.  So,  we've 
 established  the  importance  of  beneficial 
 life.  However,  there's  one  free  thing 
 you  can  do  to  help  prevent  fungal 
 disease,  and  it's  really  important. 
 Fungal  disease  is  prevalent  when  two 
 conditions  occur.  Heat  and  moisture. 
 First,  I'd  like  to  have  you  focus  on 
 watering  at  the  right  time.  We  don't 
 want  water  standing  around.  When  you 
 water  at  night,  it  stands  around  until 
 the  sun  comes  out.  A  better  strategy,  if 
 it's  possible,  is  to  water  right  when 
 the  sun  is  coming  up  or  right  before  the 
 sun  comes  up  because  you  put  on  all  the 
 water  that  you  need  and  then  the  sun 
 dries  it  up  and  it's  not  standing.  it's 
 not  stagnant.  Second,  make  sure  that  you 
 have  a  properly  functioning  irrigation 
 system.  And  that's  what  we're  working  on 
 here.  Every  year  for  the  last  five  or 
 six  years  in  the  summer,  they've  had 
 fungal  problems  and  they've  also  had  dry 
 problems.  That's  a  classic  example  of  an 
 irrigation  system  that  isn't  delivering 
 water  evenly.  And  that's  real  important 
 in  having  a  good  irrigation  system.  A 
 lot  of  times  that  happens  because  you 
 have  this  problem  area.  It's  always  dry 
 and  so  you  think  I  got  to  water  longer. 
 I  got  to  water  longer.  And  while  you're 
 watering  longer,  you  have  these  other 
 areas  that  do  cover  fine  and  now  they 
 get  too  much  water.  If  you're  watering 
 at  the  right  time  and  you  have  a  system 
 that  deliver  water  evenly,  you  have  the 
 ability  to  do  the  third  really  important 
 thing,  which  is  to  water  as  little  as 
 possible.  These  uneven  watering  systems 
 don't  allow  you  to  water  as  little  as 
 possible  because  you've  always  got  an 
 area  that  doesn't  get  much  water  and  you 
 got  to  leave  the  system  on  longer. 
 That's  our  overall  goal.  Water  as  little 
 as  possible  and  have  everything  healthy 
 and  looks  good.  So,  you  want  to  focus  on 
 proper  watering  and  on  feeding  your  soil 
 and  don't  fall  victim  to  this  trick  of 
 bio  advanced.  Bio-advanced  makes  it 
 sound  like  it's  a  biological  solution. 
 It's  not  biological.  It's  chemical.  If 
 you're  curious  about  five  ingredients 
 that  can  completely  transform  your  soil, 
 then  check  out  this  video  here.

---

 Sometimes  you  see  a  garden  or  a 
 landscape  and  you  think  that  must  have 
 been  done  by  a  professional.  Today  I 
 will  reveal  to  you  one  of  the  important 
 ways  to  make  your  garden  and  lawn  look 
 like  a,000  bucks  and  that's  proper 
 edging.  I  will  also  share  the  most 
 common  mistakes  that  people  make  when 
 creating  an  edge  around  their  lawn  or 
 planting  areas  that  can  end  up  looking 
 like  a  disaster.  But  first,  let's  dive 
 into  what  makes  a  professionallook  edge. 
 A  professional  edge  appears  that  way  if 
 the  shape  is  very  clean  and  neat  and 
 reflects  the  shape  you're  after  and  if 
 the  grade  is  the  proper  grade  in 
 relation  to  what  you're  edging.  I'm  John 
 Valentino,  president  of  John  and  Bob's 
 Corporation.  And  this  is  Chip  Valentino, 
 vice  president  in  charge  of  professional 
 edges.  You  ready,  Chip? 
 >> He  seemed  pretty  comfortable. 
 The  least  expensive  way  to  do  edging  is 
 just  with  a  shovel  cut.  Nothing  wrong 
 with  it,  but  it  does  have  some  problems 
 in  that  if  it's  shovel  cut  for  a  lawn 
 edge,  over  time  that  shape  changes 
 depending  on  who  does  your  maintenance 
 and  how  they  edge  the  lawn.  Some  people 
 like  a  separation  from  the  lawn  and  the 
 shrubs  in  order  to  keep  certain  types  of 
 lawn  from  growing  into  the  shrub  area. 
 And  whereas  that's  minimally  effective 
 if  you  don't  have  any  kind  of  formal 
 edge.  That  shovel  cut  edge  is 
 appropriate  where  you  don't  want  to 
 spend  money  on  edging.  But  if  you  want  a 
 very  professional  look  and  a 
 longerlasting  edge,  then  stay  tuned. 
 We'll  get  to  that.  One  of  my  least 
 favorite  types  of  edging  is  widely  used 
 and  they're  they're  plastic.  Their  cost 
 is  really  why  they're  used  a  lot.  The 
 problem  with  them  is  with  heat  and  cold, 
 they  tend  to  bend  and  rise  and  settle 
 kind  of  uncontrollably  no  matter  how 
 hard  you  try  to  stake  them  into  place. 
 And  they  just  don't  look  good  over  time. 
 We  don't  use  that  type  of  edging  because 
 two  of  the  things  that  make  edging  look 
 professional  is  this  clean,  precise 
 shape  and  the  ability  to  have  the  grade 
 exactly  where  you  want  it.  Okay,  we're 
 here.  This  is  an  exciting  moment.  I  get 
 to  tell  you  about  my  two  favorite  kinds 
 of  edging.  The  kind  we  use  on  almost 
 every  project  we  do.  One  of  them  is  easy 
 to  do  for  homeowners  and  one  of  them  is 
 more  of  a  contractor  job.  And  we  use 
 both  of  them  kind  of  interchangeably. 
 This  is  one  of  the  most  useful  and 
 professional  looking  edges  that's  really 
 easy  to  install.  Permalock  edging.  This 
 is  just  a  piece  of  it.  It  comes  in  16  ft 
 lengths  with  the  stakes.  It  bends 
 easily.  The  piece  this  small  doesn't 
 bend,  but  it's  easy  to  bend  into  free 
 form  curve  linear  shapes  or  you  can  keep 
 it  straight.  They  call  it  anodized 
 aluminum.  I  think  it's  actually  just 
 painted.  Here  we  have  an  example  of  the 
 permalock  edging  used  to  define  a 
 pathway.  We've  got  base  rock  and 
 decomposed  granite  under  this  Yuma  rock. 
 And  then  we  used  the  permalock  edging  to 
 define  it  and  to  keep  the  California 
 gold  separated  from  the  yuma  rock. 
 So  this  is  the  permalock  edging  as  a 
 lawn  edge  where  we're  just  barely  above 
 the  height  of  the  lawn  and  about  3/4  of 
 an  inch  above  the  rock.  We're  keeping 
 the  rock  separate  from  the  lawn.  With 
 permal  lock  edging,  you  can  put  it  in 
 anytime  when  you  do  your  original 
 installation  or  you  can  come  back  after 
 your  landscape  is  complete.  You  know, 
 you  might  have  to  do  a  little  mini 
 excavation,  but  nothing  major.  So,  our 
 price  for  Permalock  edging  is  right  up 
 there  around  $6  a  linear  foot.  It's  not 
 inexpensive,  but  it's  a  very  good 
 product,  works  very  well,  and  lasts 
 indefinitely. 
 of  edging  that  we  use  a  lot  of  on  a  lot 
 of  the  projects  we  do.  And  so  it's  more 
 contractor  oriented  is  just  real  steel 
 about  a  3/16  thickness.  We  weld  the 
 rebar  to  the  edging  in  order  to  shape 
 it.  Both  of  these  are  similar  in  cost.  I 
 think  the  steel  edge  is  less  expensive 
 than  the  permalock,  but  then  there  is 
 more  labor  in  it.  So,  if  you're  at  $6 
 with  this,  you're  probably  buying  this 
 for  about  three  or  $4  a  linear  foot. 
 Here,  we've  used  the  steel  edging.  We've 
 used  it  to  separate  this  rock  area, 
 which  is  for  parking,  with  a  planting 
 area,  which  has  mulch.  We're  just  a 
 little  above  the  rock,  and  then  we're 
 more  above  the  bark.  We  hope  that  the 
 rock  doesn't  get  into  the  bark,  and  the 
 bark  doesn't  get  into  the  rock.  These 
 edgings  can  be  added  with  time.  Depends 
 on  how  you're  using  it.  Around  a  lawn, 
 you  can  definitely  always  add  it.  Where 
 you're  trying  to  separate,  say,  rock  or 
 gravel  from  a  planting  area,  you  could 
 add  it,  but  it's  going  to  be  a  lot  more 
 straightforward  and  cleaner  to  do  it 
 right  before  the  installation  of  all  the 
 surrounding  materials.  So,  there  are 
 other  options  for  professional  edging. 
 most  likely  would  want  to  hire  a 
 contractor  of  some  type  to  install  them. 
 So,  it's  not  a  do-it-yourself  project. 
 Say  with  a  type  of  lawn  that  is 
 invasive,  like  a  Bermuda  lawn,  they  like 
 the  idea  of  trying  to  make  a  separation 
 that  doesn't  allow  the  Bermuda  to  grow 
 out  into  the  planting  areas.  Concrete  is 
 used  a  lot  as  an  edge  on  lawns,  but  it's 
 also  the  most  expensive  and  the  most 
 visually  evident.  A  six-inch  MO  strip  is 
 going  to  cost  20  to  $25  a  linear  foot. 
 And  then  all  other  types  of  masonry  can 
 be  used,  too.  You  could  use  brick,  and 
 brick's  going  to  be  even  more  expensive 
 than  concrete.  So,  after  hearing  our 
 summary,  hopefully  you  have  an  idea  of 
 what  material  you  want  to  use,  but  we 
 don't  want  you  to  make  some  common 
 mistakes.  When  you  use  these  edging 
 products,  you  are  forever  defining  the 
 shape  of  whatever  it  is  you're  defining. 
 You  need  to  make  sure  you  get  that  shape 
 to  be  exactly  what  you  want.  The  most 
 common  is  the  use  of  inexpensive 
 materials  that  don't  hold  up  well  and 
 can't  maintain  their  grade  and  so  they 
 don't  hold  their  shape  well.  The  shapes 
 and  everything  will  be  determined  by 
 your  landscape  design.  We  like  very 
 simple  shapes,  direct  shapes,  sometimes 
 straight  lines,  sometimes  curved  linear 
 lines,  but  always  the  simplest  shape  to 
 accomplish  our  goals.  The  other  common 
 mistake  is  to  finish  them  at  the  wrong 
 grade.  You  have  to  be  pretty  precise 
 about  the  top  of  the  grade  of  the  edging 
 because  it  has  to  be  high  enough  that  it 
 does  its  job  and  keeps  the  material 
 separate  and  yet  low  enough  that  it's 
 not  a  hazard  or  a  visual  hazard.  So  this 
 is  the  grade  the  top  of  the  grade  of  the 
 mulch.  This  is  the  grade  of  the  steel 
 edging  and  this  is  the  grade  of  this 
 rock.  So  the  height  of  edging  is  just  a 
 little  above  whatever  you're 
 controlling.  In  the  case  of  lawn,  maybe 
 like  a  quarter  of  an  inch  above  the 
 lawn.  If  it's  gravel,  maybe  more  like  a/ 
 an  inch  above  the  gravel.  If  you  found 
 this  video  helpful,  like  it.  Indicate  in 
 the  comments  below  if  you'd  like  us  to 
 make  a  video  about  the  installation  of 
 edging.  So,  now  that  you  know  how  to 
 create  professionallook  edges,  what  if 
 you  are  dealing  with  poor  soil?  Also, 
 check  out  this  video  where  we  inform  you 
 how  to  fix  your  soil  the  lazy  way.

---



---

 This  right  here  is  what  lazy  gardening 
 looks  like.  No  digging,  no  fancy  tools, 
 just  soil  that  feeds  itself  and  your 
 plants.  Most  people  over  complicate  soil 
 health,  but  once  you  know  these  five 
 ingredients  we're  about  to  show  you, 
 you'll  never  have  to  fix  your  soil 
 again. 
 >> And  I  soil  my  pants.  Is  that  tie  in  or 
 is  that  perfect? 
 >> Okay.  Luckily,  we  have  Eddie  the  lazy 
 landscaper  here  who  will  translate  what 
 I'm  telling  you  in  simple  terms  that 
 everyone  can  understand. 
 >> Were  you  saying,  John,  that  I'm 
 simple-minded  and  lazy? 
 >> Humic  and  fulvic  acid  are  magical. 
 They're  the  endroduct  of  decomposition 
 of  organic  matter.  They  chilate  all 
 kinds  of  minerals  that  plants  can  use 
 and  they  assist  your  soil  in  absorbing 
 and  using  nutrients  more  effectively. 
 When  you  said  magical  acid  compounds,  it 
 brought  me  back  to  the  60s. 
 So,  John,  for  a  simple  guy  like  me,  what 
 you're  saying  is  it  collects  the 
 nutrients  from  the  soil  in  one  of  the 
 most  efficient  ways  and  delivers  it 
 throughout  the  plant. 
 >> That's  exactly  what  it  does.  There  are  a 
 lot  of  products  available  that  have  good 
 quality  humic  and  fulvic  acid.  The  one 
 thing  that's  important  to  know  is  the 
 quality.  We  want  at  least  40  to  50% 
 humic,  at  least  12  to  15%  fulvic,  and 
 then  a  bunch  of  other  organic  compounds, 
 bringing  total  organic  compounds  to  over 
 80%. 
 >> How  do  you  apply  these? 
 >> You  can  apply  them  topically  like  in  the 
 root  zones,  but  even  outside  the  root 
 zones.  That  way,  we're  improving  soil 
 and  addressing  plant  growth.  Water 
 activates  it.  So,  at  some  point,  you 
 have  to  water  them  in.  Optimize  is  our 
 attempt  to  use  humic  and  fulvic  acid 
 together  with  some  other  uh  kind  of  key 
 nutrients  to  make  them  as  effective  as 
 they  can  be  in  your  soil. 
 >> You  can  have  all  the  food  and  nutrients 
 in  the  soil,  but  if  you  don't  have  any 
 life  in  the  soil,  then  it's  not  going  to 
 optimize  the  absorption.  And  that's 
 where  this  next  ingredient  comes  in.  You 
 have  these  little  guys  in  the  soil  and 
 they're  helping  to  make  it  more 
 absorbable. 
 >> Yeah.  Little  guys  under  our  feet  doing 
 all  kinds  of  work  for  us.  These  are  key 
 to  the  health  of  our  soil.  And  what's 
 really  missing  in  today's  soils,  they're 
 missing  because  of  a  lot  of  inputs  of 
 chemicals.  Even  our  water  that's 
 chlorinated  damages  life.  We  need  to 
 think  of  ways  that  we  can  improve  life 
 in  the  soil.  Soil  microbes  break  down 
 organic  matter  and  improve  your  soil 
 structure. 
 >> Well,  now  that  you  mentioned  that,  John, 
 I've  been  breaking  down  my  organic 
 matter  for  years  now.  That's  another 
 story.  Microisa  is  a  really  incredible 
 beneficial  microbe  that  does  live  on 
 roots  and  one  of  the  most  powerful 
 beneficial  fungi  we  know  of  at  this 
 time.  So,  you  can  buy  microisa  online.  A 
 lot  of  nurseries  sell  it  in  a  little 
 granular  form.  You  have  to  make  sure  you 
 apply  it  close  to  root  systems  otherwise 
 it's  lost.  Definitely  every  time  you 
 plant  something  new  I  would  use 
 microisa.  I  like  the  idea  of  doing  it 
 every  spring  if  you  can. 
 >> So  John  you  have  products  that  have 
 micro  eyes  in  it  don't  you? 
 >> We  do  have  a  product  with  a  microisa  and 
 it's  a  really  excellent  product.  So  when 
 you  add  that  to  the  food  that  we  talked 
 about  now  we're  starting  to  ramp  up  this 
 process  of  improving  your  soil.  You're 
 going  to  see  a  big  difference  in  bloom, 
 production,  everything  you  want  in  a 
 garden. 
 >> So,  we've  got  the  food,  we've  got  things 
 that  are  eating  the  food.  And  so,  now 
 what's  for  dessert?  No,  no,  that's  not 
 right.  What  else  do  we  have  to  make  this 
 system  complete  and  complimentary? 
 >> The  next  step  is  to  add  more  types  of 
 life.  Not  just  microisa,  but  we  want 
 bacteria,  fungi,  protozoa,  good 
 neatodes.  We  want  all  those  things  to  be 
 thriving. 
 >> It's  kind  of  like  what  I  associate,  and 
 I  think  you  can  tell  I'm  getting  hungry 
 again,  is  it's  like  a  buffet  where  you 
 invite  everyone.  Well,  maybe  not  my 
 relatives,  but  most  people  you  invite  to 
 the  buffet  so  that  your  plant  life  can 
 prosper.  That's  true.  The  one  thing  I 
 like  to  emphasize  is  not  only  we  want 
 plant  life  to  prosper,  but  we  want  soil 
 life  to  prosper.  And  that's  kind  of  the 
 whole  idea  of  our  product  line  is  we're 
 trying  to  get  soil  life  to  prosper  and 
 be  complex  as  you  mentioned. 
 >> And  there  you  have  the  dirt  on  the  whole 
 situation. 
 >> So  the  source  of  that  complex  life  is 
 going  to  be  a  really  good  quality 
 compost  or  even  better  a  concentrated 
 compost.  Getting  high  quality  compost  is 
 sometimes  difficult  to  do  because  you 
 don't  know  what's  gone  into  the  making 
 of  it.  One  source  of  good  quality 
 compost  that  I  really  like  is  earthworm 
 castings.  That's  essentially  a  high 
 quality  compost.  Compost  is  easy  to 
 apply.  We  want  to  just  lightly 
 incorporate  it  with  our  hands  or  just 
 use  it  as  a  top  dress. 
 >> Compost  sounds  like  it  does  a  good  job, 
 but  it  also  sounds  like  it's  a  bit  of 
 work.  And  you  know  me  and  how  I  try  to 
 avoid  work  is  lazy. 
 >> I  am  lazy  and  lazy  and  I'm  consistently 
 lazy.  At least  give  me  credit  for  that. 
 But  in  any  event,  is  there  a  simpler 
 product  or  a  simpler  way  to  apply  that? 
 Well,  luckily  I'm  not  advocating  that 
 you  have  to  make  your  own  compost.  That 
 is  a  lot  of  work.  That  almost  has  to  be 
 like  your  hobby.  Our  Maximize  that  I 
 just  showed  you  has  in  it  concentrated 
 compost.  So,  that  makes  the  process  very 
 simple.  We've  got  the  buffet. 
 Everybody's  up  there  eating,  but  maybe 
 there's  still  a  little  spice  that  we 
 could  add  to  this  mixture  to  enhance  the 
 buffet.  You  know,  we're  talking  about 
 plants,  but  when  you  talk  about  things 
 that  we  then  also  can  eat  in  turn,  like 
 tomatoes  and  other  things  that  uh  some 
 folks  may  have  in  their  garden,  now 
 you're  really  passing  those  on  to  us. 
 >> You  know,  that's  a  real  key  point 
 because  there's  lots  of  consternation 
 recently  about  the  depletion  of  our  soil 
 makes  it  so  farmers  are  producing  food 
 depleted  in  minerals  and  nutritional 
 value.  And  that's  exactly  what  things 
 like  basaltt  are  about  is  so  that  you 
 can  have  soil  that  produces  plants  full 
 of  minerals,  full  of  nutritional  values. 
 I'm  a  big  fan  of  ground  basaltt  because 
 it's  full  of  minerals  and  minerals  are  a 
 great  food  for  beneficial  microbes  of 
 all  kinds. 
 >> So,  this  is  kind  of  like  some  of  the 
 supplements  and  vitamins  I  take  to  kind 
 of  round  out  my  diet  of  ice  cream  and 
 chocolate  syrup. 
 >> It  is  supplements  for  soil.  Exactly.  We 
 uh  recommend  it  once  every  6  months. 
 There's  some  gardens  that  are 
 tremendously  established  and  doing 
 really  well.  You  could  probably  get  by 
 once  a  year. 
 >> If  I  remember  correctly,  having  read  the 
 labels  and  applied  it  to  my  yard,  you 
 you  have  basalt  in  in in  the  product, 
 don't  you? 
 >> We  do  have  ground  basalt  in  our 
 Maximize. 
 >> So  Maximize  has  a  good  quality  compost. 
 It  has  microisa.  It  has  groundup  basalt. 
 So,  let's  find  out  what  the  last  product 
 is  that  complements  this  whole  spectrum 
 of  healthy  soil  for  healthier  plants. 
 So,  over  time,  the  effect  of  all  these 
 excellent  things  we're  putting  in  the 
 soil  will  allow  your  soil  to  produce  its 
 own  nitrogen,  phosphorus,  and  potassium. 
 But  immediately,  sometimes  that  doesn't 
 happen.  Especially  when  you  stop  feeding 
 with  Miracle  Grow  or  a  product  like  that 
 really  high  in  nitrogen,  your  lawn  or 
 your  plants  will  react  in  a  way  that 
 doesn't  look  healthy  even  though  we're 
 in  the  process  of  building  really 
 healthy  soil.  Now,  we're  actually 
 feeding  plants  with  the  macronutrients, 
 nitrogen,  phosphorus,  and  potassium. 
 Dried  mcelium  is  the  best  organic 
 fertilizer  I've  ever  used.  I  say  that 
 because  dried  mcelium  has  this  rare 
 ability  to  not  only  feed  plants  with  NPK 
 and  even  with  minor  nutrients,  but  it 
 feeds  the  soil  at  the  same  time. 
 >> What  you're  saying  is  by  adding 
 nitrogen,  phosphate,  and  potassium  as 
 part  of  this  whole  mix.  You're  feeding 
 the  soil.  You  you're  enhancing  plant 
 life.  It's  a  win-win. 
 >> Yeah.  It  allows  people  to  be  a  little 
 more  patient  because  dried  mycelium  is 
 going  to  make  everything  look  great 
 faster.  Whereas  our  other  formula  is 
 more  of  a  slow  acting  formula  that  works 
 over  time.  So  this  is  our  dried  mycelium 
 product  called  nourish  bio.  Unlike 
 traditional  chemical  fertilizer,  dried 
 mcelium  you  can  apply  it  anytime.  It's 
 water  that  activates  it.  So  at  some 
 point  you  need  to  water  it,  but  it  won't 
 burn  your  lawn  or  burn  your  plants. 
 If  you  like  this  video,  please  like  it 
 and  subscribe.  If  you  have  comments, 
 please  enter  them  below.  Thank  you  very 
 much  for  watching. 
 [Music]

---

 This  yard  was  dramatically  impacted  by 
 their  dog,  Petey.  He  made  it  so  the  lawn 
 disappeared  because  of  digging.  The 
 owners  hired  us  to  make  it  a 
 lowmaintenance  dogproof  yard.  Join  us  on 
 this  video  and  we'll  show  you  some  ideas 
 of  how  you  can  dogproof  your  own  yard. 
 I'm  John  Valentino,  president  of  John 
 Bob's  Corporation.  This  is  Chip 
 Valentino,  who's  vice  president  in 
 charge  of  pet  landscaping.  He  has  a 
 GoPro  camera  today.  Stay  tuned  so  you 
 can  see  a  dog's  perspective.  While  I'm 
 not  usually  a  proponent  of  artificial 
 turf,  there  are  some  cases  where  it 
 makes  sense  and  it's  a  good  choice.  This 
 is  one  of  them.  With  a  regular  lawn,  you 
 can  get  pet  stains  in  the  summer.  Very, 
 very  common.  People  think  they  have 
 fungus,  but  it's  pet  urine  stains.  For 
 dog  urine,  you  rinse  it  off  as 
 frequently  as  you  want.  And  then  there 
 is  a  method  to  actually  once  a  year  or 
 so  give  it  a  better  cleaning.  You  can 
 keep  it  very  clean  without  a  lot  of 
 effort.  Also,  Pey,  the  dog  that  lives 
 here,  love  to  dig  in  the  lawn  pretty 
 much  destroying  it  constantly.  So,  the 
 benefits  of  artificial  turf  in  this  case 
 really  add  up.  Nice  shock  of  green. 
 Stays  clean  and  neat.  Dog  loves  it.  Dog 
 can't  dig  in  it.  Doesn't  need  mowing. 
 Doesn't  need  watering.  doesn't  need 
 fertilizing.  That  gets  a  lot  of  use.  I 
 like  that  if  you're  using  something  not 
 just  for  looks,  and  in  this  case,  the 
 dog  is  using  this  lawn  every  day.  One  of 
 the  biggest  downsides  of  artificial 
 turf,  especially  in  a  city  like  Fresno 
 that's  over  100°  many  days  in  the 
 summer,  is  the  heat.  It's  it's  a  hot 
 surface.  Some  people  choose  to  put  in 
 sprinklers.  On  a  hot  summer  day,  you  can 
 turn  on  the  sprinklers,  cool  it  off.  In 
 this  case,  we  have  these  big  shade 
 trees,  pacarpus,  sycamore.  So,  it's  a 
 cooler  yard  and  it's  a  shaded  yard.  And 
 in  the  absence  of  sun  beating  down  on 
 it,  the  heat  problem  isn't  as  big  a 
 factor.  So,  if  you  have  a  dog  and  you 
 want  a  lawn,  an  artificial  turf  is  a 
 simpler,  easier  thing  to  consider  that 
 might  work  good  for  you.  Does  your  dog 
 walk  into  your  house  with  muddy  paws  or 
 covered  in  dirt?  We  have  a  couple  of 
 tricks  to  solve  that  frustrating 
 reality.  One  of  the  important  things  we 
 did  is  instead  of  using  mulch  or  leaving 
 it  dirt  all  around  the  plants,  we  used  a 
 3/4  in  rock  that  makes  it  so  he  doesn't 
 seem  to  want  to  dig  in  the  rocks.  And 
 Petey  has  a  reputation  for  digging. 
 Chip,  the  angel  that  he  is,  doesn't  do 
 much  digging.  One  thing  that's  important 
 there  is  to  make  those  rocks  big  enough. 
 There's  a  lot  of  uh  gravel  or  rock  being 
 used  in  landscapes  that's  38  and  they 
 still  tend  to  dig  in  that.  But  if  you 
 can  make  it  3/4  and  bigger,  that  seems 
 to  not  prohibit  them  but  discourage  them 
 from  digging  in  it.  There's  lots  of 
 different  rocks  available.  This  is  an 
 attractive  one  called  Rainbow.  And  we 
 used  it  everywhere  we  could  use  it.  And 
 we  didn't  put  it  real  thick  because  if 
 you  don't  put  it  real  thick,  I  think 
 it's  good  for  soil,  good  for  the  plants 
 under  the  rock.  We  used  our  products  to 
 improve  that  soil  and  put  life  in  the 
 soil.  And  then  down  the  road  as  we  want 
 to  make  improvements  to  the  soil,  we  can 
 just  throw  it  on  top  of  the  rock  and 
 it'll  go  right  through  the  rock.  The 
 other  thing  is  I  don't  like  using  weed 
 fabric  under  the  rock  if  we  have  plants. 
 If  it's  in  a  area  where  you're  just 
 going  to  use  as  a  walk,  then  that's 
 fine.  We  did  use  a  little  mulch  here  at 
 the  request  of  the  owners.  Probably 
 mostly  aesthetic  in  this  case  because 
 they  like  the  contrast  of  the  mulch  and 
 the  rock.  If  you're  considering  rock  as 
 a  mulch,  don't  worry  about  that  as  a 
 decision.  That  will  work  fine.  Any  plant 
 can  have  rock  around  it.  If  your  dog 
 likes  to  destroy  your  plants  or  sit  on 
 them  or  roll  around  on  them,  you  want  to 
 consider  that  when  you  make  your  plant 
 choices.  They  like  color,  so  almost  all 
 the  plants  bloom  and  they're  tough. 
 They're  easy  to  grow.  Pete  could  sit  on 
 them  and  they'd  spring  right  back.  They 
 had  a  beautiful  buganilia  that  really 
 performs  well  for  them.  So,  we  added  two 
 more. 
 They  have  a  mature  plumbago  kind  of 
 spilling  over  their  fence  from  their 
 neighbors  and  they  really  like  it.  So 
 they  added  a  couple  of  plumbago.  We 
 moved  to  hibiscus  which  are  doing 
 incredibly  well,  better  than  I  would 
 have  expected.  We  used  a  lot  of  our 
 penetrate  liquid  biotiller  on  them  and 
 our  blend  and  those  are  products  that 
 really  help  with  transplanting.  And  then 
 some  small  plants  like  silvery  sunproof 
 larvia  which  is  just  a  very  low  plant 
 that  blooms  with  an  attractive  flower  in 
 the  middle.  They  wanted  something  that 
 doesn't  get  real  big  cuz  their  yard 
 already  has  big  trees.  And  so  we  used  a 
 small  crepe  myrtle.  Only  gets  about  10 
 ft  tall.  It  has  red  leaves  which  is 
 unusual  for  crepe  myrtle.  It's  called 
 the  black  diamond  series  of  crepe 
 myrtles.  And  they're  going  to  grow  it  as 
 a  multi-  trunk  very  small  tree.  It's  a 
 beautiful  plant.  I  really  think  that  was 
 a  nice  selection  here  in  the  kind  of  a 
 focal  point  of  the  yard.  Pey  will  be 
 able  to  sit  under  it  and  get  a  little 
 bit  of  shade.  The  dog's  prone  to  chewing 
 on  or  breaking  irrigation  things  that 
 are  above  grade  sprinklers  and  valves 
 and  such.  You  can't  see  them  here.  This 
 one  is  a  drip  system  and  it's  completely 
 buried.  PD  doesn't  have  access  to  it. 
 They're  just  under  the  rock  and  so  you 
 can  find  the  emitters  if  you  want  to. 
 That  is  a  way  you  can  get  away  from  dogs 
 that  tend  to  be  destructive  with 
 irrigation  systems  is  use  a  buried 
 system  and  drip  lends  itself  very  well 
 to  that.  The  whole  entrance  to  their 
 house  was  few  shallow  steps  that  weren't 
 easy  to  navigate  for  people.  You  can  see 
 we  have  very  nice  steps  now.  A  landing. 
 Pete  flies  up  those  and  then  a  big  patio 
 area,  a  courtyard  area  that  they'll  have 
 some  furniture  on  that  we  did  in  a  flag 
 stone  that  matches  the  color  of  the 
 concrete  and  the  trim  of  their  house. 
 And  the  owners  dressed  up  this  new  entry 
 with  these  individual  tiles  in  the 
 risers  of  the  steps,  which  is  really 
 neat  approach  to  making  it  a  little  more 
 attractive.  Using  a  new  landing  isn't 
 necessarily  a  part  of  dogproofing  your 
 yard,  but  we  wanted  to  dogproof  the  yard 
 and  make  it  attractive  and  easy  to  care 
 for  and  useful  for  humans  at  the  same 
 time.  That's  the  idea  of  gardens  and 
 landscapes  is  to  enjoy  them  and  have 
 them  improve  your  life.  If  you  enjoyed 
 Chip's  camera  work,  let  us  know  in  the 
 comments  and  give  this  video  a  like.  If 
 you  would  like  to  see  more  content  with 
 Chip,  then  be  sure  to  subscribe  to  our 
 channel.  Everything  does  better  in  your 
 yard  when  you're  a  subscriber.  If  you'd 
 like  to  see  more  of  a  dog's  perspective, 
 check  out  this  prior  video  we  did  with 
 Chip  as  the  cameraman  and  Chip's 
 perspective.

---

 Are  you  tired  of  plants  that  need 
 constant  attention  and  pruning?  If  you 
 are,  this  video  is  for  you.  Before  I 
 show  you  some  smaller  plants  that  I  use 
 all  the  time  that  are  very  useful  in 
 smaller  spaces  and  are  easy  to  take  care 
 of,  I  want  to  show  you  the  garden  of 
 Eddie  the  lazy  landscaper.  Eddie's  got  a 
 lot  of  good  examples  here  of  the  right 
 plant  for  the  right  place.  It's  really 
 important  to  select  your  plants  properly 
 so  you  don't  have  to  constantly  be 
 pruning  them  and  you  don't  have  to 
 constantly  be  worried  about  them. 
 >> I  actually  invented  a  term,  John.  I  You 
 probably  have  heard  about  it.  Instead  of 
 sleepwalking,  I  call  it  sleep  gardening. 
 >> So,  this  plant  can  hide  unsightly 
 objects  on  your  wall  like  irrigation 
 controllers  or  backflow  preventers.  And 
 it  can  be  used  as  a  living  green  fence 
 as  long  as  you  support  it. 
 >> They  don't  need  that  heavy  a  pruning. 
 You  know,  you're  able  to  keep  them  to  a 
 decent  size  without  intruding.  It  could 
 be  more  natural  looking  if  you  want  it 
 to  be.  And  so  it's  not  one  of  those 
 critical  things  that  has  to  be  pruned 
 all  the  time. 
 >> It's  an  evergreen  plant.  Always  looks 
 pretty  good.  It's  very  versatile.  It's 
 used  in  a  lot  of  different  ways.  You  can 
 even  use  it  as  a  ground  cover.  Instead 
 of  growing  it  up,  you  could  just  plant 
 it  on  the  ground  and  it  grows  all  over 
 the  ground  to  about  2  to  3  ft  tall.  So, 
 this  is  trumpet  vine  that  Eddie's  used 
 to  grow  up  on  the  outside  of  his 
 chimney.  He's  getting  voracious  growth 
 out  of  it.  It's  amazing  all  of  us  by  how 
 fast  it  grows. 
 >> This  is  only  a  year  old  and  I  got  it 
 when  it  was  this  big. 
 >> At  some  point,  I  may  have  to  prune  it 
 and  it'll  start  getting  runners  down 
 here  and  I  may  prune  those  back,  but 
 really  not  much  not  much  effort  at  all 
 in  that.  It  doesn't  grow  so  fast  that 
 you  have  to  prune  it  more  than  once  a 
 year.  You  need  to  be  careful  how  you 
 prune  it  because  you're  growing  this  for 
 the  flowers. 
 >> The  only  complaint  I  have  about  this,  if 
 if  it's  even  a  legitimate  one,  is  it 
 doesn't  have  a  long  blooming  cycle 
 because  it's  so  pretty,  but  it  certainly 
 greens  up  and  stays  green  year  round. 
 >> Eddie. 
 Oh,  hey,  John.  I  like  the  idea  of  hiding 
 things  as  Eddie  has  done  in  certain 
 spots,  but  I  also  like  the  idea  of 
 showing  the  design  of  the  house  and  the 
 architecture  of  the  house.  And  this  idea 
 of  foundation  planting,  which  is  plants 
 that  go  right  along  your  house,  usually 
 in  a  fairly  tight  spot.  I  think  it's 
 important  not  to  pick  inappropriate 
 plants  that  are  too  big  for  the  spot 
 that  you  then  have  to  club  into 
 submission.  So,  I've  brought  today  a  few 
 plants  to  show  you.  They're  appropriate 
 for  these  tight  spots.  I  will  show  you 
 them  at  the  end  of  this  video.  These 
 roses  just  outside  Eddie's  window  are  a 
 good  example  of  appropriate  foundation 
 planting  that  doesn't  get  too  big  and 
 doesn't  need  any  special  pruning  or 
 care.  Now,  let's  look  at  trees  that 
 allow  you  to  garden  without  a  lot  of 
 work.  The  two  big  things  to  picking  the 
 right  tree  are  the  canopy  size  and  the 
 habits  of  the  roots.  These  kinds  of 
 trees  I  call  lollipop  trees  because  you 
 can  you  can  train  them  and  get  them 
 started  and  then  they're  really  not  that 
 labor  intensive.  But  the  scale  of  this 
 tree  to  my  smaller  yard  uh  gives  me  a 
 lot  of  beauty  without  being  overly  large 
 and  looking  out  of  place.  This  is  about 
 as  large  as  it  gets,  which  is  about  a 
 10ft  uh  canopy.  So  if  you  look  over  here 
 to  the  edge  of  the  pool,  it  does  not 
 drop  anything  in  the  pool.  And  you  know 
 I  don't  like  cleaning  up  my  pool. 
 Perfect  for  Eddie  the  lazy  landscaper. 
 >> And  Mrs.  Lazy  landscaper  likes  it  too. 
 >> So,  hibiscus  seriatis  usually  used  as  a 
 large  background  shrub.  Eddie  has  pruned 
 it  into  a  small,  very  well-  behaved 
 tree.  Now,  to  get  it  to  look  like  this, 
 it  was  more  work  in  the  beginning 
 because  this  isn't  its  natural  form.  If 
 you  had  hibiscus  as  a  large  shrub,  you 
 could  never  prune  it  if  it  was  in  a  form 
 that  you  liked.  If  you  pick  the  wrong 
 tree,  meaning  a  one  that's  too  big  for 
 small  gardens,  don't  worry  about  it. 
 It'll  only  ruin  your  yard.  Usually,  you 
 see  the  wrong  tree  selected  because  it's 
 too  big  and  over  time  has  root  problems, 
 cracks  your  driveways,  cracks  your 
 sidewalks,  and  makes  it  so  all  these 
 things  are  part  of  the  maintenance  of 
 caring  for  this  tree  that's  really  too 
 big  for  its  spot.  I  saw  a  Chinese 
 pistachio  the  day  in  my  niece's  yard, 
 brand  new  home,  and  they'd  planted  it  2 
 feet  from  the  edge  of  her  roof.  Now, 
 that's  a  25-  ft  canopy  tree,  probably. 
 >> If  you  go  into  new  subdivisions,  you  see 
 all  of  these  big  trees  planted  in  these 
 small  little  yards.  They  they're  going 
 to  they  do  take  over  the  whole  yard  and 
 the  house.  As  we  look  in  other  parts  of 
 your  garden,  you  have  some  other  nice 
 small  trees.  Japanese  maple  is  a  great 
 scale  tree  we  were  talking  about  because 
 it  comes  in  different  sizes.  This  is  a  a 
 medium  small  one,  if  you  will.  This  is 
 about  as  big  as  as  this  is  going  to  get. 
 >> It'll  get  20  ft  tall.  Some  people  don't 
 consider  that  small,  but  for  a  tree 
 that's  a  patio  scale  tree.  Japanese 
 maple  is  a  nice  choice  because  it's 
 pretty  easy  to  take  care  of.  And  even  in 
 Fresno,  this  green  one  takes  quite  a  lot 
 of  sun,  doesn't  have  invasive  roots.  It 
 does  need  some  pruning  to  look  its  best 
 so  that  you  can  kind  of  see  through  it 
 and  see  the  structure.  You  would  need  to 
 thin  it  once  a  year  definitely  and 
 usually  that's  enough.  Speaking  about 
 your  laziness,  I  heard  uh 
 >> Oh,  you  don't  have  to  call  me  your 
 laziness.  Just  Edd's  fine.  But  anyway, 
 go  ahead. 
 >> If  we  had  a  pill, 
 >> yes, 
 >> to  cure  procrastination, 
 >> you'd  take  it  tomorrow. 
 >> I  don't  know if  I'd  have  the  energy,  but 
 it  sounds  good. 
 crepe  myrtles  like  this  tusurora  and 
 like  this  muscogi  those  are  big  crepe 
 myrtles  and  they're  called  Indian  tribe 
 crepe  myrtles  they're  big  and  they  have 
 these  big  plumes  of  flowers  you  can  see 
 this  makes  an  excellent  small  shade  tree 
 usually  crepe  myrtles  are  smaller  and 
 there's  lots  of  varieties  that  are 
 smaller  speaks  to  what  we  were  talking 
 about  earlier  of  picking  the  right  size 
 plant  for  a  small  garden  but  this  is  the 
 perfect  size  for  this  spot 
 >> right  and  that's  why  I  chose  this  I  knew 
 this  was  a  little  larger  scale  or  quite 
 a  bit  larger  scale  than  some  of  my 
 smaller  trees.  However,  I  in  the  master 
 bedrooms  here  and  when  we  open  that  up 
 to  look  out,  we  wanted  a  big  tree  that 
 also  cut  down  on  the  sun  coming  in  to 
 have  this  scale.  We  had  to  have  some 
 room.  So,  we  don't  have  a  lot  of  other 
 things  around  it.  The  only  problem 
 sometimes  is  they  tend  to  get  aphid. 
 Feed  your  soil.  Make  your  soil  as 
 healthy  as  possible.  And  usually  you  can 
 control  that.  It  doesn't  require  a  lot 
 of  pruning,  but  it's  to  make  it  look 
 like  Eddie's  here.  It  needs  thinning. 
 I'd  say  at least  once  a  year. 
 >> Well,  it's  almost  getting  nap  time, 
 John. 
 >> Now,  let's  take  a  look  at  some  of  my 
 favorite  plants  that  happen  to  be  small. 
 You  don't  have  to  prune  them  a  lot  and 
 they'll  fit  in  almost  anywhere.  You 
 never  have  to  prune  this.  It  only  gets 
 about  12  in  tall  and  it  spreads  out. 
 It's  a  very  lowmaintenance  uh  low 
 growing  green  perennial  shrub.  Very 
 useful  plant  in  that  it's  tough,  doesn't 
 take  a  lot  of  water.  It's  bright  green, 
 which  is  sometimes  hard  to  find  with  low 
 water  plants.  We  use  it  as  kind  of  an 
 unusual  ground  cover,  so  to  cover  large 
 spaces.  We  used  it  the  other  day  in  a 
 parking  strip.  The  one  that  you  see  all 
 the  time  that  gets  too  big  for  the  spot, 
 is  the  bay  tree  or  the  bay  leaf  tree  or 
 sweet  bay,  it  goes  by  different  names. 
 And  this  is  a  dwarf  bay  called  Little 
 Ragu.  It  only  gets  about  five  or  six 
 feet  tall.  Whereas  a  full-grown  bay  tree 
 gets  20,  30  ft.  The  little  ragu  bay 
 could  be  pruned  about  once  a  year  just 
 to  keep  it  in  the  shape  and  the  form 
 that  you  want.  It's  kind  of  a  background 
 shrub.  I  actually  used  it  at  my  new 
 house  along  a  walkway  where  we're  trying 
 to  create  an  evergreen  screen.  Eddie  has 
 one  that  we  showed  you  earlier,  green 
 Japanese  maple  that's  20  feet  tall  and 
 it's  been  his  has  been  there  a  while. 
 This  one  is  only  3  to  5t  tall,  full 
 size.  So,  it's  a  small,  delicate,  dwarf 
 Japanese  maple.  And  there's  lots  of 
 different  varieties  that  fit  that  same 
 description.  They  can  be  used 
 appropriately  without  covering  up  your 
 house  and  covering  up  the  appealing 
 parts  of  your  architecture.  Tuscan  blue 
 rosemary  is  a  good  plant  for  around  your 
 house  that  doesn't  get  too  huge.  It's 
 probably  4T  tall,  3  ft  wide.  Easy  to 
 grow,  tough,  water  efficient,  and  great 
 for  cooking.  I  can  smell  it  already.  If 
 you  use  it  in  the  right  spot,  you  almost 
 never  have  to  prune  it.  This  lari  is 
 called  silvery  sunproof,  and  it's  a 
 variegated  one.  Laapy  in  general  is  very 
 useful  because  it'll  take  a  whole  lot  of 
 shade  and  it'll  take  a  whole  lot  of  sun. 
 It  doesn't  get  too  much  bigger  than 
 this.  Maybe  twice  this  size  in  the 
 ground.  Good  in  four  grounds.  You  don't 
 need  to  prune  it  at  all  unless  you  see 
 dead  parts  of  it  or  you  want  to  prune 
 off  the  flowers  or  something.  Juniper's 
 procumbent  nana  doesn't  get  more  than  6 
 to  12  inches  and  just  grows  along  the 
 ground.  You  can  use  it  as  a  ground  cover 
 in  the  foreground  because  it's  low.  It 
 doesn't  get  big  at  all.  It's  tough.  It 
 doesn't  require  much  water.  It's  easy  to 
 grow.  Doesn't  need  pruning.  Lots  of 
 agave  aren't  practical  and  useful  in 
 small  gardens  because  they're  huge. 
 Whereas  blue  glow  stays  only  two  feet 
 tall.  And  there's  other  dwarf  varieties. 
 Blue  glow  is  one  of  my  favorites.  You 
 can  see  it  has  very  handsome  foliage. 
 You  can  see  Eddie's  using  dwarf  agave, 
 not  blue  glow,  but  a  different  variety 
 in  his  pots.  They're  excellent  in  pots. 
 Also  just  good  as  a  filler  in  small 
 landscape  areas,  but  they  would  be  used 
 in  the  foreground  because  they're  so 
 small.  This  is  agapanthis  queen  an  which 
 is  a  fairly  small  agapanthus.  Stays  very 
 well  contained.  This  only  gets  about  12 
 in  tall.  It's  not  a  plant  that  you  prune 
 other  than  if  it  has  damage  from  frost. 
 A  lot  of  people  shy  away  from  nandina 
 cuz  they  tend  to  be  overused,  but 
 there's  a  lot  of  new  varieties  of 
 nandina  that  are  tremendously 
 interesting  and  intriguing.  This  is  one 
 called  flirt.  You  almost  never  have  to 
 prune.  And  it  only  gets  3  to  four  feet 
 tall  and  it's  got  kind  of  a  spreading 
 pendalless  habit.  Really  delicate 
 looking.  Has  great  colors  in  the  spring 
 and  the  fall.  It's  a  real  interesting 
 focal  point  in  a  small  area.  If  you  have 
 an  area  that  you  think  people  are  going 
 to  look  at,  I'd  use  a  few  Nandina  flirt 
 together.  Rouselia  St.  Elmo's  fire 
 blooms  like  crazy  this  time  of  year. 
 Right  now  it's  looking  great.  There's 
 not  many  plants  that  look  its  best  when 
 it's  105  like  it's  going  to  be  today 
 here  in  Fresno.  A  little  bit  more  of  a 
 background  plant  because  it  does  get 
 four  to  five  to  six  feet  tall.  Doesn't 
 hardly  take  any  water.  You  don't  really 
 have  to  prune  it  if  you  put  it  in  a  spot 
 that  can  take  about  a  4  to  5ft  plant. 
 The  Enella  Casa  Blue  gets  maybe  twice  as 
 tall,  blooms,  takes  sun  and  shade,  easy 
 to  grow,  does  not  require  pruning.  It 
 really  can't  be  pruned  other  than 
 removing  dead  leaves.  You  can  use  it  as 
 a  foreground  plant.  I  used  it  in  my  new 
 house  as  a  border  around  my  dwarf  ginko 
 tree.  So,  if  you  want  to  be  a  lazy 
 landscaper  like  me,  then  I  suggest  that 
 you  maybe  write  down  some  of  the  things 
 that  we  talk  about  in  this  video,  some 
 of  John's  plants  that  he  recommends,  and 
 then  you  can  put  together  your  own 
 landscape  and  at  the  same  time  Oh, 
 excuse  me.  Save  time,  be  lazy.  I  thank 
 you  and  grow  for  it. 
 >> So,  if  you  like  this  video  and  you  like 
 uh  participating  in  a  little  nap  with 
 Eddie,  uh  please  like  it,  subscribe  to 
 our  channel,  check  out  one  of  our  other 
 videos  we  did  with  Eddie  the  Lazy 
 Landscaper.  We  managed  to  keep  him  awake 
 long  enough  to  do  a  few  videos. 
 [Music]

---

 If  your  summer  garden  feels  like  a 
 full-time  job,  then  you're  probably 
 making  one  of  these  six  mistakes.  Hi, 
 I'm  John  Valentino  with  Chip  Valentino. 
 He's  my  vice  president  in  charge  of 
 keeping  summers  cool.  After  45  years  of 
 working  in  Fresno's  hot  climate,  we  have 
 learned  how  to  not  make  these  mistakes. 
 So,  when  things  get  hot,  instinctively 
 people  want  to  water  more.  While  that 
 might  be  appropriate  in  some  situations, 
 keep  in  mind  that  nothing  will  kill 
 plants  or  lawn  faster  than  high  heat  and 
 too  much  water.  When  the  soil  becomes 
 saturated,  it's  like  an  anorobic 
 condition  and  essentially  it  can't 
 breathe.  There's  no  exchange  of  air  and 
 water.  It's  just  stagnant.  That's 
 probably  most  prevalent  in  lawns  in  the 
 summers,  particularly  cool  season  grass 
 in  warm  season  climates.  You  need  to  try 
 to  have  the  water  be  very  even  and  not 
 get  water  logged  in  any  particular  spot. 
 If  you  have  standing  water  or  just 
 saturated  areas  of  the  soil  and  this 
 oppressive  heat,  that's  really  what 
 breeds  disease.  So,  we  want  to  stay  away 
 from  that.  In  planting  areas,  we're 
 trying  to  encourage  deep  rooting.  The 
 best  way  to  encourage  deep  rooting  is 
 you  do  watering  for  long  periods  of  time 
 as  long  as  the  water  is  being  absorbed, 
 but  you  don't  do  it  frequently.  You  give 
 the  soil  time  to  dry  out  in  between 
 waterings  to  where  even  the  top  is  just 
 barely  slightly  moist  or  the  top  might 
 even  feel  dry,  but  when  you  dig  down  an 
 inch  or  so,  there's  moisture.  and  then 
 that's  about  the  right  time  to  water 
 again.  So,  we've  discussed  the  pitfalls 
 of  overwatering,  but  don't  go  too  far 
 the  other  way.  There's  problems  there, 
 too.  Unfortunately,  underwatering  can 
 stress  your  plants,  leaving  them 
 vulnerable  to  pests  and  disease.  To 
 avoid  this  common  summer  mistake,  you'll 
 need  to  figure  out  if  you're  watering 
 the  right  amount.  So,  you  put  factors 
 together.  If  you  get  out  and  feel 
 around,  some  people  like  to  use  moisture 
 meters,  which  are  yeah,  probably  not 
 always  accurate,  but  interesting.  I 
 prefer  more  of  a  soil  probe  where  you 
 dig  down  and  and  sample  the  soil  at  an 
 inch  below  and  two  and  three  and  four 
 and  5  in  below  and  you  look  into  how 
 much  water  is  being  applied  or  the 
 weather  conditions.  Then  you  put  all  of 
 these  things  together  and  determine  if 
 it's  from  underwatering  or  an 
 overwatering.  There's  one  last  watering 
 mistake  to  discuss,  and  that's  watering 
 at  the  wrong  time.  If  you're  watering 
 the  right  amount  in  the  summer  heat,  but 
 you're  watering  at  the  wrong  time,  it 
 can  still  create  problems  in  your  lawn 
 and  your  shrubs.  The  textbook  right 
 time,  and  sometimes  we  can't  go  by  the 
 textbook,  but  the  perfect  time  to  water 
 is  very  early  in  the  morning,  right 
 before  the  sun  comes  out,  and  then 
 finish  the  watering  as  the  sun's  coming 
 out.  And  the  thinking  there  is  we're 
 applying  water,  there's  no  evaporation 
 due  to  sun  and  stuff  while  we're 
 applying  it.  So  that  gives  it  the 
 greatest  chance  to  soak  into  the  soil. 
 And  since  the  sun's  coming  out,  right, 
 when  we're  done,  water  won't  stand 
 around.  And  water  standing  around  is 
 what  creates  fungal  disease  in  the 
 summer.  You  can  be  aware  of  that  and  not 
 be  able  to  do  it.  Some  yards  and 
 especially  public  landscapes  that  are 
 big,  they  might  have  20  stations,  20 
 individual  valves  that  go  on  and  and 
 water  and  maybe  they  water  for  30 
 minutes  each.  So  that's  5  hours.  You  got 
 to  start  in  the  middle  of  the  night. 
 There's  no  way  to  get  everything  watered 
 before  the  sun  comes  up.  So  there  are, 
 you  know,  some  practical  exceptions  to 
 it.  But  if  you  keep  in  mind  the  ideal, 
 we'll  do  it  if  we  can  and  maybe  we'll  do 
 it  in  those  situations  that  are  most 
 sensitive  to  say  fungal  disease  like  the 
 lawn.  If  you  have  any  kinds  of  pest  and 
 disease  problems,  that's  one  thing  I'd 
 adjust  is  watering  time.  Are  you 
 skipping  mulch  in  your  garden?  That's 
 like  skipping  sunscreen  at  the  beach. 
 Not  using  mulch  is  a  gardening  mistake, 
 especially  in  the  summer,  that  can 
 create  more  work  for  you.  Here  are  all 
 the  reasons  why  you  want  to  regularly 
 mulch  your  garden.  And  I  might  not  even 
 be  able  to  list  them  all.  There's  so 
 many.  First  of  all,  it  protects  soil 
 from  the  sun.  The  soil  can  get  sunburn, 
 and  the  soil  can  be  damaged  by  the  sun 
 in  ways  that  impair  absorption.  A  good 
 mulch  does  conserve  moisture  in  a  way 
 that  really  helps  with  not  having  to 
 water  as  often  and  also  keeping  the  soil 
 moist  throughout  its  profile  rather  than 
 this  uneven  drying  out.  And  that's 
 really  good  for  plant  growth.  So 
 mulching  is  an  important  part  of 
 allowing  soil  to  function  like  it's 
 supposed  to  function  and  feed  plants 
 properly.  I  know  in  the  case  of  our 
 products  where  we're  trying  to  infuse 
 the  soil  with  life,  it's  amazing  how 
 much  better  the  products  seem  to  make 
 for  healthy  plants  when  there's  mulch 
 over  the  top.  How  much  faster  all  the 
 beneficial  stuff  that  we're  putting  in 
 the  soil  works  and  more  permanently.  So, 
 the  type  of  mulch  isn't  as  important  as 
 mulch.  There's  lots  of  different  things 
 that'll  work.  I  think  people  like  to 
 pick  the  ones  that  look  the  best.  And  I 
 I  like  that  criteria.  And  there  are  some 
 really  attractive,  you  know,  dark,  rich 
 looking  mulches  that  make  it  look  like 
 your  soil  is  dark  and  rich  looking.  And 
 plants  look  better  with  a  contrast.  I 
 don't  like  any  of  the  dyed  ones.  And  I 
 don't  think  the  dyes  are  good  for  soil. 
 But  any  natural  kind  of  mulch,  whether 
 it's  made  from  compost,  green  waste, 
 cedar,  Douglas  fur,  some  people  use 
 newspaper.  All  of  those  are  fine.  I 
 usually  either  use  shredded  cedar  or 
 walk-on  bark,  which  is  Douglas  fur.  The 
 frequency  applied  really  depends  on  how 
 thick  you've  put  it  and  how  well  it's 
 holding  up.  The  most  frequent  I  would 
 consider  mulching  is  once  a  year  and  the 
 least  is  once  every  five  years.  The 
 other  thing  is  if  you  have  a  planting 
 style  where  we're  planting  heavily  and 
 plants  are  covering  the  soil.  Well, 
 plants  can  protect  the  soil  just  like 
 mulch  can.  Then  the  mulch  isn't  as 
 important.  It's  when  we  have  big  blank 
 spaces  and  we're  trying  to  get  things  to 
 grow.  In  those  cases,  we  want  to  keep 
 that  soil  mulched.  Since  it's  hot, 
 feeding  your  plants  sounds  like  a  great 
 idea  until  you  overdo  it.  Putting  it  all 
 on  your  soil  in  the  summer  is  like 
 drinking  too  much  coffee.  Your  plants 
 get  stressed  and  they  crash  hard.  You 
 really  create  gardens  that  are  more 
 subject  to  pest  and  disease.  If  you're 
 overfertilizing,  you  know,  in  general, 
 we  don't  promote  using  synthetic 
 fertilizers  at  all,  but  there  might  be  a 
 time  and  place  for  them  here  and  there, 
 but  you  need  to  be  very  careful  with 
 them  because  they  can  really  burn  lawns 
 and  plants  easily  in  the  summer.  Organic 
 products  in  the  summer  are  fine. 
 Compost,  compost  tea,  even  thin  layers 
 of  earthworm  castings.  We  make  a  whole 
 line  of  products  that  work  really  well 
 in  the  summer  and  can't  burn.  We  finally 
 made  it  to  the  last  summer  mistake.  I 
 want  to  talk  about  gardener's  worst 
 enemy,  and  that  is  weeds.  If  you  don't 
 kick  them  out  early,  they'll  move  in, 
 start  a  family,  and  steal  all  your 
 nutrients.  If  you  avoid  this  mistake, 
 you'll  be  on  the  path  to  fewer  or  no 
 weeds.  So,  the  mistake  in  summer  weeds 
 is  not  having  a  strategy  built  around 
 early  intervention.  We're  training  our 
 landscape  and  our  gardens  to  not  have 
 weeds.  In  a  disciplined  garden,  we  need 
 to  have  a  strategy  about  how  we're  going 
 to  limit  weeds.  The  mulching  is  is  a 
 good  part  of  the  strategy.  We've  talked 
 about  that  already.  As  unpopular  this 
 is,  pulling  weeds  is  a  strategy  or  even 
 hoing  them  lightly  when  they're  small 
 makes  a  big  difference.  But  some  kind  of 
 strategy  where  we  are  addressing  them  as 
 soon  as  they  begin  to  develop.  People 
 are  always  asking  me  about  organic 
 methods  of  weed  control.  And  there  are 
 some  made  from  citrus  peels  and  made 
 from  vinegar  things  in  other  words  high 
 in  acid  that  in  the  summer  are  actually 
 pretty  darn  effective  because  they  burn 
 the  leaf.  But  with  those  products, 
 discipline  is  needed.  You  need  to  apply 
 them  frequently.  The  healthier  soil  you 
 have  with  a  complex  range  of  beneficial 
 soil  life  being  bacteria,  fungi, 
 prozzoa,  good  neatodes.  The  more  complex 
 life  you  have,  the  less  weed  pressures 
 there  are  healthy  soil.  And  then  this 
 early  intervention  strategy,  that's  how 
 to  train  your  garden  to  not  have  weeds. 
 Chip  and  I  have  learned  recently,  and 
 you  might  find  this  hard  to  believe,  but 
 it's  true,  that  if  you  subscribe  to  our 
 channel,  you  have  78%  less  weeds.  Now, 
 you  know,  summer  gardening  doesn't  have 
 to  be  more  work.  If  you've  made  these 
 mistakes  before,  hit  the  like  button.  Or 
 if  you  liked  our  video,  hit  the  like 
 button.  And  if  you  want  to  discuss  any 
 of  these  mistakes,  leave  it  in  the 
 comments  below.  There's  still  another 
 part  of  gardening  we  haven't  touched  on 
 much  in  this  video,  and  that's  the  lawn. 
 Click  here  to  learn  all  about  defeating 
 and  preventing  lawn  fungal  diseases, 
 which  are  very  common  in  the  summer  when 
 temperatures  are

---

 Have  you  ever  wished  that  you  could  have 
 a  lush,  attractive  garden  like  this  one 
 without  doing  much? 
 Eddie. 
 Oh,  hey,  John.  I  didn't  know  you  Hi, 
 Chip.  My  friend  Eddie  the  lazy 
 landscaper  and  I  have  cracked  the  code. 
 It's  not  about  hard  work.  It's  about 
 focusing  on  one  simple  thing  that  will 
 change  your  entire  garden.  Along  with  a 
 few  other  tips  and  tricks,  you  can 
 create  a  garden  that  requires  almost  no 
 work,  which  means  more  time  to  enjoy 
 your  beautiful  garden  and  take  a  nap 
 like  Eddie  the  lazy  landscape.  Well,  you 
 know,  I'm  glad  you  brought  that  up, 
 John.  I 
 Before  we  tell  you  this  number  one  most 
 important  thing  to  focus  on,  first  let's 
 talk  about  proper  selection  of  plants  in 
 terms  of  their  ultimate  size.  It's 
 really  important  to  select  your  plants 
 properly  so  you  don't  have  to  constantly 
 be  pruning  them  and  you  don't  have  to 
 constantly  be  worried  about  them. 
 Eddie's  got  a  lot  of  good  examples  here 
 of  the  right  plant  for  the  right  place. 
 Why  don't  you  tell  us  how  you  picked 
 this  neat  hibiscus  which  is  quite  unique 
 in  how  you've  trained  it?  These  kinds  of 
 trees  I  call  lollipop  trees  because  you 
 can  you  can  train  them  and  get  them 
 started  and  then  they're  really  not  that 
 labor  intensive.  But  the  scale  of  this 
 tree  to  my  smaller  yard  gives  me  a  lot 
 of  beauty  without  being  overly  large  and 
 looking  out  of  place.  This  is  about  as 
 large  as  it  gets,  which  is  about  a  10-ft 
 uh  canopy.  So,  if  you  look  over  here  to 
 the  edge  of  the  pool,  it  does  not  drop 
 anything  in  the  pool.  And  you  know,  I 
 don't  like  cleaning  up  my  pool. 
 Now,  I'm  not  going  to  bring  up  my  former 
 girlfriend,  Sandy  Lom.  Uh  not  not  for 
 this.  She  loved  me  to  talk  dirty  to  her. 
 I  just  said,  you  know,  Sandy,  I'm  sorry, 
 but  there's  a  point  here  where  John,  why 
 don't  you  share  with  our  viewers  the 
 most  important  aspect  of  building  a 
 healthy  garden?  And  you've  certainly 
 taught  me  that,  and  for  that,  I'm  most 
 grateful.  Well,  I'm  still  trying  to  get 
 over  your  ex-girlfriend,  Sandy  Lom.  But, 
 but  here's  the  deal.  The  number  one 
 thing  you  need  to  grow  a  beautiful 
 garden  is  healthy  soil.  That's  what 
 allows  your  star  jasmine  and  cape 
 honeysuckle  and  your  fotinia  and  your 
 hibiscus  to  thrive  and  bloom  properly 
 and  not  have  pest  and  disease.  I  don't 
 know  if  you've  been  to  a  native  plant 
 community,  let's  say  like  a  redwood 
 forest.  Why  is  it  in  a  redwood  forest? 
 Everything  looks  healthy.  There's  no 
 aphid.  Nobody's  putting  on  any  types  of 
 pesticides  or  fungicides.  It's  a  self- 
 sustaining  plant  community  because  the 
 soil  is  being  fed  by  the  native  plant 
 community  and  that  soil  is  rich  and  that 
 soil  is  full  of  life,  beneficial 
 bacteria,  fungi,  good  prozzoa,  good 
 neatodes  and  that's  what  we're  after  in 
 our  gardens  around  our  house  in  your 
 garden  in  order  to  take  care  of  it  in  a 
 lazy  way.  You're  going  to  get  great 
 benefit  from  soil  rich  in  microbiology. 
 And  the  way  to  make  your  soil  rich  in 
 microbiology  is  to  either  use  compost, 
 compost  tea  or  our  concentrated  products 
 where  we  take  parts  of  compost  and 
 compost  tea  and  we  use  them  in  very 
 simple  products  that  you  can  apply 
 topically.  In  my  life  here  in  recent 
 years,  I've  started  eating  healthier. 
 And  by  eating  healthier,  I'm  not  having 
 to  take  the  medications  that  I  used  to 
 take  in  abundance  to  compensate  for  that 
 unhealthy  eating.  And  I  don't  see  really 
 a  difference  in  that  and  and  the  great 
 products  that  I  of  yours  that  I  use  in 
 the  in  the  yard.  That's  an  excellent 
 analogy.  It's  exactly  the  same  thing. 
 We're  trying  to  um  you  know,  put  yogurt 
 in  your  soil.  You  know,  we're  trying  to 
 build  the  microbiology  in  your  soil  like 
 you're  trying  to  build  it  in  your  own 
 gut.  And  that's  the  key  to  good  health 
 for  people  and  good  health  for  plants. 
 Weeding  might  just  seem  like  a 
 unpleasant  part  of  gardening,  but 
 there's  several  things  you  can  do  to 
 limit  weeds.  Let  me  show  you  how  to 
 train  your  yard  the  lazy  way,  how  not  to 
 have  weeds.  The  most  common  question  I 
 get  is  uh  when  I  talk  about  our  products 
 is,  "What  product  do  you  have  for 
 weeds?"  And  our  product  for  weeds  is 
 healthy  soil.  What  we're  trying  to  do  is 
 train  our  gardens  like  Eddie  the  lazy 
 landscaper  has  to  not  have  weeds.  And 
 you  don't  do  that  by  constantly  using 
 weed  killers  and  constantly  using 
 pre-emergence.  If  you  have  a  problem, 
 you  can  use  a  pre-emergent  herbicide 
 once,  but  you're  trying  to  get  away  from 
 that.  You  we're  trying  to  get  away  from 
 everything  that  damages  life  in  the 
 soil.  And  those  kinds  of  inputs  damage 
 life  in  the  soil.  Then  we  want  to  look 
 towards  more  healthy  things  like 
 mulching.  Not  just  once  but  repeat 
 mulching.  And  if  you  continue  to  mulch, 
 that's  an  excellent  way  to  discourage 
 weed  growth.  We  want  to  look  towards 
 ways  of  watering  where  we're  we're  not 
 throwing  water  everywhere,  but  we're 
 just  delivering  water  to  the  plant.  When 
 we  throw  water  everywhere,  we  have  weed 
 pressures  everywhere.  What  are  your 
 techniques  for  controlling  your  weeds? 
 Or  maybe  you've  just  trained  it  not  to 
 have  any  weeds.  lot  has  to  do  with  your 
 product  line  and  also  I'm  a  big  believer 
 in  humus  uh  and  and  mulching.  Uh  in  fact 
 my  wife  says  I  have  a  good  sense  of 
 humus  and  I  don't  know  that  I'm  that 
 fungi  but  that  disproves  that.  Right. 
 Well  that  yeah  that  so  much  for  that.  Uh 
 take  27.  I've  been  a  believer  for  a  long 
 time  and  and  I  like  the  looks  of  it  even 
 though  it  can  be  blown  away  by  the 
 gardeners  but  fine  dark  forest  humus 
 that  tends  to  help  amend  the  soil 
 improves  the  drainage.  It  helps  your 
 product  work  so  much  better.  It  does. 
 Last  10  years  or  so  I've  shied  away  from 
 that  neat  dark  black  humus  because  a  lot 
 of  people  have  gardeners  and  gardeners 
 like  to  blow  in  the  planting  areas  and 
 they  just  blow  that  stuff  away.  So  I've 
 gone  to  a  heavier  mulch.  I've  gone  to 
 things  like  cedar  and  so  more  of  a  walk- 
 on  bark  type  product.  You  have  rock  in  a 
 lot  of  places  in  your  yard  and  I  assume 
 that's  pretty  effective  in  terms  of  weed 
 control.  Oh,  it's  very  effective.  And 
 then  I  have  I  have  weed  cloth  uh 
 underneath  the  rocks  and  it  really 
 prevents  weeds  totally  and  at  the  same 
 time  put  in  some  more  hearty  drought 
 tolerant  plants  which  could  take  the 
 reflection  off  the  rocks  from  the  hot 
 sun.  And  that's  a  consideration  that 
 only  in  recently  have  I  discovered  can 
 make  a  difference  with  some  plant.  The 
 only  thing  I'm  not  a  huge  fan  of  of  what 
 you  just  described  is  over  time  a 
 landscape  fabric  or  people  call  it  a 
 weed  fabric  can  inhibit  the 
 effectiveness  of  our  product  because  uh 
 it'll  get  uh  kind  of  clogged  with  silt 
 and  sometimes  roots  and  so  we  don't  have 
 that  ability  for  the  product  to  go  right 
 through  the  rock.  What  if  I  told  you 
 watering  less  could  actually  make  your 
 garden  grow  better  and  be  less  of  a 
 hassle?  We  want  to  water  as  little  as 
 possible  with  everything  thriving  and 
 not  needing  more  water.  For  the  most 
 part,  our  goal  is  deep  watering, 
 infrequent  watering,  and  I  like  this 
 idea  uh  where  possible  of  just  watering 
 where  the  plants  are.  If  you  do  have  a 
 sprinklers  system,  try  to  put  in  systems 
 that  apply  water  very  evenly. 
 Head-to-head  coverage,  meaning  the  spray 
 of  one  sprays  to  the  head  of  the  next 
 sprinkler,  not  to  the  spray  of  the  next 
 sprinkler.  When  we  first  bought  this 
 property  many  years  ago,  uh  it  was 
 virtually  all  sprinklers.  And  now  it  is 
 all  drip  for  a  number  of  reasons, 
 including  the  ones  you're  talking  about, 
 but  also  just  from  a  standpoint  that 
 we're  in  an  area  that  that  gets  a  lot  of 
 drought  type  weather  and  and  we've  faced 
 that  water  shortage  here.  And  so,  you 
 know,  why  not  conserve  where  you  can, 
 albeit  I  have  a  swimming  pool,  but  uh  I 
 I  I  try  to  be  very  careful  otherwise. 
 The  laziest  way  is  to  have  a  good 
 quality,  properly  installed  and 
 well-managed  irrigation  system.  You  do 
 have  to  monitor  it  or  somebody  has  to 
 monitor  it.  You're  not  as  old  as  I  am, 
 John,  but  I  think  you  probably  remember 
 the  days  when  we  had  to  have  the  key  and 
 turn  on  the  stations  and  all  of  that. 
 Well,  whether  you  have  sprinklers  drip 
 or  and  or  a  combination  of  both,  having 
 an  automated  system  that's  very 
 dependable,  uh,  with  even  a  backup 
 battery  when  we  have  power  failures  at 
 least  helps  to  keep  the  regulation  of 
 the  distribution  of  water  um, 
 consistent,  right?  I  agree.  I'm  not  as 
 old  as  you. 
 Well,  I'm  as  old  as  dirt,  but  you  do 
 like  dirt  at least.  So,  that's  probably 
 why  you  like  me,  I  think.  Yeah.  One  of 
 the  most  troublesome  and  timeconsuming 
 problems  in  the  garden  is  pests  and 
 disease.  Spending  your  money  on 
 pesticides  and  disease  suppressants  is  a 
 waste.  It's  toxic.  We  don't  recommend 
 it.  There's  a  direct  relationship 
 between  things  that  are  seemingly 
 unrelated  like  aphid  and  the  soil.  And 
 the  healthier  soil  we  have,  the  better 
 in  terms  of  preventing  every  pest  and 
 disease  there  is.  And  in  that  way,  I 
 think  you  can  combat  even  some  of  these 
 mysterious  soil  born  diseases  or  fungal 
 diseases  that  we  don't  even  have  a  cure 
 for.  If  you  don't  have  healthy  soil  and 
 every  time  you  get  some  pest  problem  or 
 some  disease  problem  and  you  go  to  the 
 nursery  and  buy  a  toxic  chemical  to  get 
 rid  of  it,  you  put  yourself  on  this 
 treadmill  of  having  to  address  disease 
 um  and  then  damaging  the  soil  more  every 
 time  you  do  that,  which  pretty  much 
 guarantees  that  you're  going  to  keep 
 getting  those  pests  and  keep  getting 
 those  diseases.  That's  not  a  lazy  way  to 
 garden.  That's  that's  a  toxic  ambitious 
 way  to  garden.  Eddie  the  lazy  landscaper 
 has  no  pest  and  disease  problems  and  uh 
 we  want  to  keep  it  that  way.  So  now  you 
 know  the  number  one  trick  to  being  lazy 
 in  your  garden  and  have  your  garden 
 thrive  and  that  is  healthy  soil.  It's 
 really  pretty  simple.  You  can  apply  our 
 products  just  twice  a  year  depending  on 
 the  size  of  your  yard  10  or  15  minutes. 
 So  30  minutes  you  can  address  this 
 number  one  trick.  The  way  to  healthy 
 napping  is  through  healthy  gardening. 
 Excuse. 
 Well,  I'll  have  to  finish  that.  And 
 healthy  gardening  is  only  possible 
 through  healthy  soil.  And  that's  what 
 we're  all  about  on  this  channel.  If  you 
 like  this  video,  Chip  and  I  would  really 
 appreciate  it  if  you  would  subscribe  and 
 like  the  video  itself.  This  is  our  first 
 video  with  Eddie  the  lazy  landscaper. 
 So,  let  us  know  how  he  did.  Eddie,  what 
 do  you  think?  Would  you  want  to  come 
 back?  I  want  to  come  back  and  I'm 
 desperate  for  people  to  like  me.  Believe 
 me,  I  actually  invented  a  term,  John.  I 
 I'm  You  probably  have  heard  about  it. 
 Instead  of  sleepwalking,  I  call  it  sleep 
 gardening. 
 You  know,  we've  been  talking  about  soil 
 focused  uh  gardening  and  landscaping, 
 but  we  should  talk  more  about  sleep 
 gardening. 
 [Music]

---

 think  you  need  weed  and  feed  to  have  a 
 great  lawn. 
 You  actually  don't.  This  lawn  has  seen 
 zero  weed  and  feed,  and  it's  gorgeous. 
 In  fact,  using  it  might  do  more  harm 
 than  good  to  your  pets,  to  your  health, 
 and  to  your  lawn  itself.  I  will  break 
 down  why  not  using  weed  and  feed  is  the 
 best  thing  for  your  lawn,  what  you  can 
 use  instead,  and  stick  around  to  the 
 end.  I'll  share  three  free  ways  to  help 
 you  have  a  beautiful  lawn.  Broadcasting 
 weed  killer  while  we  broadcast 
 fertilizer.  It's  easy.  It's  simple,  but 
 it's  not  the  right  way  to  do  it.  I  would 
 prefer  to  carefully  select  a  fertilizer 
 and  then  carefully  select  a  weed  killer 
 based  on  what  weeded  it  is  and  in  a  way 
 that  we  can  limit  the  use  of  weed 
 killers.  The  idea  that  we're  taking  weed 
 killers  and  just  throwing  them  all  over 
 the  lawn  regardless  of  whether  there's 
 weeds  there  or  not,  that's  an  approach 
 that  doesn't  make  sense  to  me.  Why  put 
 weed  killer  on  healthy  lawn?  I'm  John 
 Valentino,  president  of  John  Bob's 
 Corporation.  This  is  Chip  Valentino, 
 vice  president  in  charge  of  healthy 
 turf.  It's  not  just  me  saying  this. 
 Local  governments  are  literally  asking 
 for  the  EPA  to  ban  the  weed  and  feed 
 ingredients  because  of  what  it  does  to 
 our  families,  our  pets,  and  our  drinking 
 water.  Most  weed  and  feeds  have  24D  and 
 some  other  chemicals  for  the  weed  killer 
 part.  24D  is  associated  with  cancer, 
 kidney  disease,  reproductive  problems. 
 Studies  have  indicated  that  dog  owners 
 who  use  24D  products,  their  dogs  are 
 twice  as  likely  to  develop  canine 
 malignant  lymphoma.  Weedfeed  ingredients 
 also  have  negative  impacts  on  beneficial 
 insects  and  honeybees.  So  with  all  these 
 negative  impacts  of  weed  and  feed  and 
 24D,  why  do  we  want  to  use  it  all  around 
 our  house?  What  can  you  use  instead? 
 There's  several  options  that  are  good 
 for  our  own  health  and  good  for  your 
 garden,  good  for  your  soil,  and  most 
 importantly  are  an  easier  way  to  garden 
 and  have  long-term  health  rather  than 
 this  approach  where  every  time  you  have 
 a  problem,  you're  putting  a  poison  on 
 it.  So,  the  first  step,  focus  on 
 building  the  soil.  And  if  you  can,  while 
 you're  doing  that,  ignore  the  weeds. 
 When  you  do  feed,  feed  with  something 
 that's  good  for  your  soil  because  that's 
 what  we're  trying  to  do  is  improve  our 
 soil  to  where  we  don't  have  weed 
 problems.  Products  like  compost  tea  or 
 even  compost,  earthworm  castings, 
 nourish  bio,  all  good  for  building  the 
 soil  in  a  way  that  makes  it  much  easier 
 to  grow  a  healthy  lawn.  After  say  6  to 
 12  months  of  this,  if  you  still  have 
 chronic  weed  problems,  what  are  those 
 weeds?  How  can  we  best  kill  those  weeds? 
 We  might  have  to  use  a  chemical  here  and 
 there,  but  we  would  use  a  chemical  just 
 for  spot  treatment  and  we  move  on.  We 
 don't  keep  using  it  every  year.  We've 
 talked  about  some  that  have  24D  and 
 dicama,  chemicals  like  that  that  have 
 proven  to  be  cancer-causing  and  not  the 
 type  of  thing  we  want  to  use  around  our 
 house.  But  there  are  a  couple  of 
 interesting  weed  killers.  I  still  use 
 them  as  a  last  resort  that  are  better. 
 One  is  called  Captain  Jack's  Lawnweed 
 Brew  ironbased.  When  I  look  at  the 
 ingredients,  I  like  the  ingredients  in 
 it.  It's  not  sold  in  California.  They 
 will  not  allow  its  use  in  California. 
 And  I  don't  know  why.  It  looks  like  a 
 pretty  good  alternative  to  things  that 
 appear  to  be  much  more  toxic  to  me.  The 
 other  one  is  tenacity.  The  chemical  used 
 in  it  has  no  link  to  causing  cancer.  If 
 we  need  to  rely  on  some  kind  of  chemical 
 weed  killer  in  lawn  that  does  not  kill 
 the  lawn,  tenacity  is  a  good  one  to  try. 
 Another  alternative  is  many  weeds  can  be 
 controlled  best  with  a  pre-emergent 
 herbicide,  which  if  you  time  them 
 perfectly,  they  can  kill  the  seeds 
 before  the  weed  develops.  And  if  you 
 understand  that  these  pre-emergent 
 herbicides  are  only  to  be  used  when 
 really  needed,  what  a  lot  of  companies 
 do  and  a  lot  of  people  that  care  for 
 their  lawn  is  they  use  pre-emergent 
 herbicide  just  by  the  calendar  every 
 year.  I  don't  like  that  approach.  Let's 
 just  use  it  one  time  if  we  need  it.  So, 
 you  want  to  improve  your  lawn.  Here  are 
 three  tips  that  will  not  cost  you 
 anything  that  you  can  focus  on  to  have  a 
 much  healthier  lawn.  Healthy  lawns  don't 
 usually  get  weeds  because  they're  so 
 dense  and  healthy  that  weeds  can't 
 compete.  Some  of  you  that  have 
 supplemental  irrigation  systems,  make 
 sure  they  work  right.  They  will  apply 
 water  evenly.  You  have  head-to-head 
 coverage.  Not  where  one  sprinkler  sprays 
 to  the  spray  of  another  sprinkler,  but 
 the  spray  of  one  sprinkler  actually 
 sprays  to  the  next  sprinkler.  That's 
 head-to-head  coverage. 
 One  thing  that  can  improve  weed 
 pressures  is  low  mowing,  but  you  only 
 want  to  do  low  mowing  if  you  have  a  lawn 
 that  does  well  with  low  mowing,  like 
 some  kind  of  Bermuda  or  improved 
 Bermuda.  If  you  have  tall  fescue  or 
 other  types  of  cool  season  grass,  you 
 can't  do  low  mowing,  but  you  can  do 
 regular  mowing.  Change  the  path  that 
 you're  mowing.  And  many,  many  weeds 
 can't  tolerate  constant  mowing.  Another 
 technique  that  I  like  to  use  as  a  way  of 
 refreshing  your  lawn  either  once  or 
 twice  a  year  and  is  effective  on  weed 
 control  because  then  we  guarantee  we 
 have  dense  stand  of  grass  is  overseeding 
 in  the  fall  or  in  the  spring.  Water 
 properly,  we  mow  properly,  we  overseed. 
 And  now  with  all  this  competition,  weeds 
 don't  know  where  to  go.  They're  lost. 
 they  can't  get  in  there  unless  you  do 
 one  of  those  improperly  and  you  develop 
 these  bare  areas  and  that's  when  weeds 
 come  in.  But  my  prediction  is  if  you're 
 feeding  your  soil,  if  you're  feeding 
 your  lawn  and  you're  overseeding  and 
 you're  watering  properly  and  you're 
 mowing  properly,  you're  not  going  to 
 have  weeds.  Please  subscribe  if  you 
 enjoyed  this  video.  Let  all  your  friends 
 know.  Chip  and  I  will  be  here  to  do  more 
 videos  for  you.  Let  us  know  what  you'd 
 like  to  learn  about.  Thank  you  very  much 
 for  watching.  If  you  appreciate  learning 
 about  why  not  to  use  weeden  feed,  maybe 
 you  want  to  learn  about  why  not  to  use 
 fungicide.  Check  out  our  video  that  we 
 recently  posted  on  that  topic.

---

 Everyone  wants  delicious,  sweet,  juicy 
 tomatoes,  but  most  of  us  aren't 
 successful  in  achieving  that  because 
 it's  not  just  about  water  and  sunshine. 
 I've  grown  tomatoes  for  about  20  years 
 now,  and  I  have  the  top  10  factors  to 
 allow  you  to  grow  the  sweetest,  most 
 delicious  tomatoes. 
 I  want  to  make  sure  you  hear  our  number 
 one  reason,  so  stick  around  to  the  end. 
 Number  10  is  pick  sweet  varieties.  This 
 is  the  factor  that  sets  the  tone  for 
 your  whole  season  of  tomato  growing.  So, 
 do  a  little  research  into  what's  the 
 characteristics  of  the  tomato  you're 
 going  to  plant.  The  absolute  sweetest 
 tomatoes  I've  ever  tasted  are  little 
 cherry  tomatoes,  which  tend  to  be  the 
 sweetest,  sunold,  and  sun  sugar.  When 
 you  taste  those,  you'll  know  what  makes 
 tomatoes  really  tasty,  and  that's  the 
 sugar  content.  We're  in  Oscar's  garden 
 here  in  Fresno,  California.  This  year 
 he's  growing  Whopper,  crimson  caramello, 
 and  beef  steak.  Number  nine,  6  to  eight 
 hours  of  full  sun.  Your  tomatoes  might 
 be  getting  sun,  but  do  they  get  enough 
 sun?  That's  really  an  important  factor 
 with  sweet  tomatoes.  So  6  to  8  hours  is 
 quite  a  bit.  Try  to  arrange  your 
 planting  spot  so  that  they'll  get  that 
 much.  Number  eight,  timing  is 
 everything.  You  need  to  plant  after  the 
 last  frost,  but  as  soon  as  possible.  The 
 sooner  you  can  plant  and  not  be  impacted 
 by  frost,  the  better.  March  15th  is 
 considered  kind  of  the  magic  date.  Oscar 
 planted  these  on  March  20th.  They're 
 doing  fantastic.  We  got  lots  of 
 tomatoes.  If  you  want  to  get  even  a 
 bigger  jump  on  it  than  waiting  till 
 March  15th  in  our  area,  you  can  plant 
 them  earlier,  but  you  need  to  use  frost 
 caps  or  something  so  that  you  protect 
 them  from  the  lows.  Number  seven, 
 improve  the  texture  and  the  tilth  of 
 your  soil.  so  that  you  have  excellent 
 drainage.  You're  much  more  subject  to 
 pests  and  diseases  if  you  have  standing 
 water  in  your  garden.  We  want  to  create 
 a  garden  where  water  percolates  through 
 your  soil  profile  easily  and  quickly.  If 
 you  need  more  information  on  how  to 
 accomplish  better  tilth  and  texture,  our 
 number  one  way  to  grow  sweet  tomatoes 
 addresses  this  issue  more  thoroughly. 
 Number  six,  maintain  consistent  but  not 
 constant  moisture.  Excess  moisture  makes 
 more  leaf  growth  and  less  tomato  growth. 
 That  upper  layer  of  soil  should  always 
 be  almost  dry  before  you  water  again. 
 Many  people  like  to  water  every  day. 
 Don't  do  that.  The  tomatoes  will  bear 
 better  and  be  much  sweeter  if  that  soil 
 is  allowed  to  drain  thoroughly.  Number 
 five,  use  sturdy  cages  or  trelluses  for 
 allseason  support.  That  all  season  is 
 important  because  they  tend  to  get  heavy 
 as  you  get  fruit  on  them  and  as  the 
 plants  get  big.  A  lot  of  the  varieties 
 of  tomato  plants  can  get  very  large.  If 
 you  just  shop  at  a  Home  Depot,  the  types 
 of  tomato  supports  they  sell  aren't 
 adequate  and  don't  work.  After  about  the 
 first  month,  the  tomatoes  are  knocking 
 over  your  support.  So  something  like 
 what  Oscar  has  done  here  with  these 
 cages  that  he  made  himself  and  then  he 
 makes  them  sturdy  with  these  lodgepole 
 stakes.  Number  four,  make  sure  your  soil 
 has  adequate  calcium.  We  like  to  look  at 
 about  a  7:1  ratio  between  calcium  and 
 magnesium.  The  only  way  you're  going  to 
 know  that  is  if  you  do  a  soil  test,  and 
 I'm  not  saying  you  have  to  do  a  soil 
 test.  If  you  have  some  problems  with 
 blossom  and  rot,  which  a  lot  of  tomato 
 growers  do,  it  is  because  the  plant 
 either  doesn't  have  enough  calcium 
 because  there's  not  enough  calcium  in 
 the  soil,  or  because  the  plant  isn't 
 uptaking  it.  Gypsum  is  one  way  to  apply 
 calcium  to  your  soil.  If  you  know  you 
 have  kind  of  a  slightly  low  pH,  you  can 
 use  lime.  And  if  you  want  to  lower  your 
 pH  a  little  and  add  calcium,  you  would 
 use  soil  sulfur.  Number  three,  for  how 
 to  grow  the  sweetest  tomatoes,  make  sure 
 you  allow  them  to  ripen  on  the  vine. 
 Ripe  tomatoes  have  a  beautiful  color 
 depending  on  what  varieties  you've 
 selected.  And  then  a  little  bit  of  give 
 in  the  tomato.  so  you  can  feel  them  on 
 the  vine. 
 Number  two,  cut  back  on  the  water  as  you 
 think  your  tomatoes  are  very  close  to 
 ripening.  The  idea  is  if  you  reduce  the 
 water  uptake,  but  the  plant  keeps 
 producing  glucose  and  fructose  and  the 
 tomato  keeps  producing  that  as  it 
 ripens,  then  those  are  more  concentrated 
 instead  of  diluted  by  water.  And  the 
 number  one  way  to  grow  the  sweetest 
 tomatoes.  Infuse  your  soil  with  life, 
 attractants  for  life,  and  food  for  life. 
 This  is  the  way  to  change  everything 
 about  your  soil  and  create  soil  that 
 feeds  tomatoes  and  plants  in  general  in 
 a  way  that  allows  them  to  grow  the  best 
 possible  fruit.  Products  like  compost, 
 earthworm  castings,  biochar,  ground 
 basaltt,  humic  acid,  fish  fertilizer  are 
 good  for  soil.  Our  products  utilize  a 
 lot  of  the  ingredients  I  just  listed  and 
 we  do  it  in  a  way  that's  convenient  and 
 easy  to  use.  That's  why  our  product 
 called  Blend  is  great  for  tomatoes  and 
 our  product  called  Penetrate  Liquid 
 Biotiller  is  fantastic  to  spray  over  say 
 once  a  month.  Oscar  on  these  plants 
 applies  penetrate  liquid  biotiller  twice 
 a  month.  Feels  that  it  really  helps  with 
 the  health  of  the  plant,  the  lack  of 
 pest  and  disease  and  the  sweetness  of 
 the  tomatoes.  So  that's  our  top  10  list 
 for  today  from  our  headquarters  in 
 Fresno,  California.  Which  of  the  top  10 
 lists  surprise  you?  Please  leave  it  in 
 the  comments  below.  Please  subscribe  to 
 our  channel  and  we'll  give  you  more 
 gardening  tips  throughout  the  summer  and 
 every  season.  If  you  know  a  tomato 
 grower  or  tomato  lover,  share  this  video 
 with

---

 Many  of  you  see  brown  patches  on  your 
 lawn  in  the  summer  and  think  you  should 
 apply  a  fungicide.  Well,  many  of  these 
 problems  aren't  what  you  think.  After  46 
 years  of  dealing  with  these  problems 
 summer  after  summer  in  a  very  hot 
 climate,  I'm  going  to  show  you  a 
 non-chemical  way  to  make  your  lawns  look 
 green  without  brown 
 spots.  So,  let's  identify  what  is  the 
 cause  of  these  brown  spots.  The  first 
 issue  is  the  grass  type  that  you  grow. 
 Some  grass  types  are  much  less 
 susceptible  to  fungal  disease,  although 
 any  grass  type  can  get  it,  but  the  most 
 susceptible  is  when  you're  trying  to 
 grow  a  cool  season  grass.  So,  a  grass 
 that  stays  green  all  year  round  in  warm 
 climates,  especially  that  get  hot  and 
 humid  in  the  summer.  Before  you  plant 
 your  grass,  I'd  say  look  into  what  is 
 the  best  fit  for  your  climate.  Sometimes 
 that's  frustrating  for  people  because 
 the  best  fit  isn't  the  kind  of  grass 
 that  they  like  the  way  it  looks,  but 
 it's  really  a  big  factor  in  limiting 
 fungal  disease  and  limiting  brown  spots 
 in  your  lawn  in  the  summer.  If  your 
 lawn's  already  planted  and  you  have 
 these  terrible  problems,  there  are  other 
 ways  that  we  can  improve  it  so  you  can 
 either  get  rid  of  the  problems  or 
 minimize  them  dramatically.  The  first  is 
 how  you  water.  When  you  see  a  brown 
 spot,  it's  very  likely  it  could  be  a 
 watering  problem  and  it  could  be  a 
 fungal  problem  and  they're  hard  to 
 distinguish.  So,  you  need  to  put  in  some 
 other  information.  Think  about  what  kind 
 of  soil  you  have.  If  you  have  very  light 
 soil,  it's  probably  unlikely  that  it's 
 too  much  watering.  It's  more  likely  if 
 you  have  heavy  soil  where  you  have  these 
 brown  spots.  Dig  in  there.  Feel  that 
 soil.  See  if  the  soil  is  saturated  or 
 the  soil  is  extremely  dry.  Cuz  sometimes 
 just  by  looking,  I  can't  even  tell.  If 
 you  have  light  soil  and  you  dig  in  these 
 brown  areas  and  it's  extremely  dry  or 
 you  know  it  was  extremely  dry  recently, 
 then  you  need  to  look  at  watering  more. 
 And  if  you're  watering  every  day,  maybe 
 your  durations  or  your  the  amount  of 
 time  you're  watering  isn't  enough.  So 
 you  increase  the  amount  of  time  you're 
 watering.  Also,  the  quality  of  your 
 irrigation  system  is  a  big  factor.  You 
 need  to  make  it  apply  water  as  evenly  as 
 possible  so  you  don't  have  these  real 
 wet  spots  and  dry  spots,  saturated  wet 
 areas.  You  combine  that  with  heat  and 
 humidity  and  there's  a  perfect  uh 
 brewing  ground  for  fungal 
 disease.  We  don't  want  fungal  disease. 
 So,  we're  going  to  try  to  water  evenly 
 and  as  little  as  possible.  What  you 
 really  want  is  head-to-head  coverage. 
 Not  where  one  sprinkler  sprays  to  the 
 spray  of  another  sprinkler,  but  the 
 spray  of  one  sprinkler  actually  sprays 
 to  the  next  sprinkler.  That's 
 head-to-head  coverage.  If  the  problem  is 
 not  enough  water  and  you  correct  that 
 problem,  you'll  see  subtle  improvements 
 in  a  day  or  two.  The  whole  lawn  will 
 have  a  healthier  look,  even  though  parts 
 of  it  will  be  brown.  In  a  week,  it 
 should  look  a  lot  different.  And  in  2 
 weeks,  usually  you  can  see  70  to  80% 
 recovery.  Whereas,  if  you  had  fungal 
 disease,  it  probably  wouldn't  change  at 
 all,  especially  if  you're  using  a 
 fungicide  until  the  weather  changes 
 completely.  It  takes  months  to  actually 
 get  a  improvement  uh  in  brown  spots 
 caused  by  fungal  disease.  So,  key  to  all 
 of  this  is  knowing  if  if  you're  not 
 watering  enough  or  you  have  a  fungal 
 disease.  And  I  understand  that  that  can 
 be  difficult.  What's  important  is  you 
 not  just  look  at  it,  but  you  analyze  all 
 the  factors  surrounding  it.  Then  we 
 start  to  add  up  everything  and  make  a 
 logical  conclusion.  You  perfect  your 
 watering  and  you  determine  for  sure  that 
 you  have  fungal  disease.  Don't  reach  for 
 a  fungicide.  That'll  pretty  much  put  you 
 on  a  schedule  where  you  get  fungal 
 disease  every  year  because  you  are 
 damaging  the  only  natural  mechanism  to 
 make  sure  you  don't  get  fungal  disease 
 every  year.  The  natural  mechanism  to 
 make  sure  you  don't  get  fungal  disease 
 every  year  is  life  in  the  soil. 
 Beneficial  fungi  way  stronger  than  the 
 bad  fungus  that  causes  fungal  disease. 
 If  you  start  applying  fungicide,  then 
 you're  going  to  damage  that  life,  which 
 is  our  only  hope  for  making  sure  we 
 don't  get  fungus  every  year.  If  you  have 
 applied  a  lot  of  chemicals  over  the 
 years,  most  likely  you've  created  a  soil 
 environment  without  life.  So,  a  better 
 alternative  is  to  immediately  start  to 
 build  your  soil  with  life  while  watering 
 properly,  which  as  I  described  earlier 
 was  no  more  than  necessary,  kind  of  at  a 
 minimum.  And  this  will  cure  fungal 
 disease  more  permanently  and  actually 
 more  quickly.  I've  gotten  very  quick 
 results  from  immediately  infusing  the 
 soil  with  life  instead  of  using  a 
 fungicide.  So  in  this  very  lawn  I'm 
 standing  on  year  after  year  they  had 
 more  and  more  serious  fungal  disease  in 
 their  cool  season  turf  in  hot  Fresno. 
 They  were  using  subdue  more  and  more 
 subdue  every  year  and  every  year  the 
 problem  was  worse  because  they  were 
 creating  a  soil  environment  with  less 
 and  less  beneficial  life.  Eventually  cut 
 out  all  the  subdue,  no  more  subdue.  Now 
 are  able  to  grow  along  without  fungal 
 disease  as  long  as  they  can  keep  the 
 watering  proper  in  the  middle  of  the 
 summer.  There  are  a  few  organic 
 fungicides  that  I've  seen  on  sites  like 
 arbico.com.  I've  had  not  great  results 
 with  them  and  I  tend  to  lean  on  this 
 idea  of  building  the  soil  with  life 
 rather  than  looking  for  this  magic 
 fungicide  product  that  fixes  everything. 
 That's  really  not  the  way  soil  works. 
 That's  not  the  way  these  diseases  work. 
 We  need  a  way  the  soil  has  something  in 
 it  that  can  do  its  own  work  and  prevent 
 and  defeat  these  funguses  that  plague 
 lawns  every  year  when  conditions  are 
 right  for  disease.  So,  you've  addressed 
 watering  and  whether  you  have  a  fungal 
 disease  and  how  to  treat  it.  Now,  how  do 
 you  treat  your  soil?  How  do  you  treat 
 your  lawn?  There's  lots  of  ways  to  build 
 life  in  soil.  One  of  the  things  I  think 
 is  important  is  focus  on  every  time  you 
 put  something  on  your  lawn.  Try  to  make 
 it  something  that's  good  for  your  soil 
 that  builds  life.  So  you  can  use 
 compost,  you  can  use  compost  tea,  you 
 can  use  our  products.  If  you  want  your 
 lawn  to  be  green,  most  people  want  to 
 fertilize  their  lawn.  Why  not  use 
 something  that  allows  your  soil  to 
 create  its  own  NPK?  that  can  be  done  if 
 you're  using  something  to  feed  the  soil 
 every  time  you  try  to  feed  your  lawn. 
 And  there  are  products  out  there  that  do 
 that.  Our  Nourish  Biosol  is  an  example. 
 Let's  feed  the  lawn  and  the  soil  at  the 
 same  time.  So,  water  as  little  as 
 possible,  but  as  much  as  your  lawn 
 needs.  Don't  treat  your  fungus  disease 
 with  fungicide.  Instead,  build  good 
 fungi.  Focus  on  feeding  your  soil. 
 That's  going  to  keep  your  lawn  healthier 
 than  any  kind  of  inputs.  Nothing's 
 better  than  your  soil  making  its  own 
 nutrients.  And  the  only  way  to  do  that 
 is  it's  alive.  This  is  kind  of  a  secret, 
 but  if  you  want  to  eradicate  your  lawn 
 of  all  fungal  disease,  subscribe  to  this 
 channel.  If  this  one  was  helpful,  please 
 like  it.  If  you  have  comments,  leave 
 them  below.  And  if  you  have  questions, 
 we'll  answer  them.  So,  if  you're 
 intrigued  about  this  idea  of  putting 
 some  effort  into  even  watering  and 
 proper  watering  of  your  lawn,  check  out 
 our  video  that  will  help  you  do  that.

---

 You  should  never  buy  another  herb  again 
 from  a  grocery  store.  And  the  reason  is 
 simple.  Once  you've  tasted  some  from 
 your  home  garden,  you'll  never  go  back. 
 Today,  I'm  going  to  give  you  five  tips 
 at  how  to  start  and  grow  your  own  herbs 
 in  containers  or  in  the  ground.  At  the 
 end,  I'll  have  a  bonus  tip  how  to  get 
 additional  use  out  of  the  herbs  you  grow 
 in  your  home 
 garden.  Lots  of  herbs  we  can  grow  in  our 
 gardens.  Basil,  thyme,  parsley.  In  this 
 garden  right  behind  me,  we  have  rosemary 
 and  a  few  different  types  of  oregano. 
 The  neat  thing  about  herbs  is  you  can 
 create  your  own  microclimates  and  grow 
 them  in  small  containers  where  you  can 
 be  moving  them  around  and  have  them  in 
 spots  where  you  can  kind  of  ignore  your 
 zone  as  long  as  you  pay  attention  to  the 
 microclimate.  So,  the  most  important 
 part  of  growing  almost  anything  and 
 especially  herbs  is  really  healthy  soil. 
 And  I  define  really  healthy  so  soil  by 
 soil  that  is  full  of  beneficial 
 microbiology.  So  beneficial  bacteria  and 
 fungi  and  prozzo  and  good  neatodes.  The 
 more  work  you  do  on  your  soil  in  terms 
 of  building  it  full  of  life,  the  less 
 you  will  need  to  use  inputs  like  organic 
 fertilizer,  any  kind  of  fertilizer 
 because  the  soil  will  be  producing  its 
 own  nitrogen,  phosphorus  and  potassium. 
 So  to  start  an  herb  garden  in  containers 
 or  in  the  ground,  in  the  ground  we'll 
 add  products  like  earthworm  castings  in 
 good  quality  compost  or  our  products 
 which  are  essentially  concentrated 
 compost.  In  containers,  we're  going  to 
 do  something  very  similar  except  you 
 usually  need  some  type  of  potting  soil. 
 Here  in  our  region,  we  have  one  called 
 Black  Gold  that  I  like.  There's  a  lot  of 
 good  potting  soils  that  you  can  use. 
 Then  I  would  add  to  it  products  to  make 
 sure  that  bagged  soil  is  full  of 
 beneficial  life.  Again,  the  same  things 
 that  I  mentioned  that  we're  going  to  put 
 in  the  ground.  We're  going  to  put  in  the 
 bagged  soil.  If  you  want  maximum  yield 
 and  flavor  out  of  your  herbs,  you  need 
 to  know  how  to  prune  them  properly  cuz 
 they're  going  to  grow  like  crazy.  Herbs 
 in  general  don't  require  a  lot  of 
 special  pruning.  You  can  prune  them  to 
 fit  your  needs  in  terms  of  where  you 
 want  them  to  grow  and  where  you  don't 
 want  them  to  grow  and  encourage  new 
 growth.  Cut  it  back  once  a  year,  which 
 encourages  new  growth.  And  it's  that  new 
 growth  that  really  is  very  useful  to  us 
 as  being  flavorful  for,  you  know,  using 
 in  recipes  and  such.  When  it's  done 
 blooming  is  a  nice  time  to  prune  it.  And 
 things  like  rosemary  that  get  woody,  you 
 can  prune  out  dead  wood.  And  depending 
 on  how  you  need  them,  uh  feel  free  to 
 prune  them  any  time  because  uh  that's 
 how  you  use  them.  One  of  the  interesting 
 things  about  pruning  and  this  you  can  uh 
 almost  apply  to  most  herbs  that  bloom  is 
 you'll  notice  that  their  fragrance  and 
 their  flavor  maximizes  around  the  first 
 bloom.  That's  the  case  with  rosemary  and 
 with  oregano.  You  might  want  to  try  to 
 figure  out  ways  to  use  them  right  as 
 they  start  their  blooming  period.  It's 
 great  to  have  a  really  tasty  herb  and 
 yet  there's  still  something  that  can 
 make  all  of  these  good  things  go  down 
 the  drain.  Improper  watering.  We  want  to 
 figure  out  a  watering  regimen  that 
 amounts  to  watering  them  as  little  as 
 possible  and  having  them  look  fantastic 
 in  the  ground  or  in  containers.  We  want 
 to  be  interactive  with  it,  be  checking 
 the  soil,  and  if  the  soil's  wet,  we're 
 not  going  to  water  it.  We  want  to  get  on 
 a  regimen  where  the  top  of  the  soil  even 
 dries  out  a  little  bit.  A  lot  of  herbs 
 couldn't  get  by  on  once  a  week  watering 
 in  the  ground.  Things  like  oregano  and 
 rosemary  are  very  water  efficient,  you 
 know,  Mediterranean  type  plants.  In 
 containers,  all  depends  upon  your 
 temperatures  and  the  type  of  potting 
 soil  you  have.  But  in  the  hot  summer,  it 
 isn't  unusual  in  small  containers  that 
 you  would  have  to  water  them  every  day. 
 So,  we're  not  going  to  shy  away  from 
 watering  them  if  that's  what's  necessary 
 to  keep  them  looking  lush.  The  only 
 danger  that  we  want  to  avoid  is 
 saturated  water  and  saturated  roots.  So, 
 we  don't  want  standing  water  for  any 
 amount  of  time.  It's  hard  for  me  to  say 
 here's  how  often  you're  going  to  water 
 it,  but  you're  going  to  feel  the  soil 
 and  you're  going  to  determine  that 
 yourself  based  on  how  you're  applying 
 water,  how  your  soil  retains  water,  and 
 your  soil  is  going  to  retain  water  well 
 if  it's  full  of  life.  Some  customers  ask 
 me,  John,  which  herbs  should  I  grow  in 
 containers,  and  which  should  I  grow  in 
 the  ground?  The  answer  is  surprisingly 
 simple.  For  the  most  part,  they're 
 interchangeable,  but  there  are  some  like 
 mint.  Mint  can  be  an  aggressive  grower. 
 And  if  this  concerns  you,  then  you  can 
 grow  it  in  a  container  and  keep  it  so  it 
 won't  get  into  the  other  parts  of  your 
 garden.  The  way  I'm  growing  it  here, 
 it's  surrounded  by  concrete  and  edging, 
 and  it's  pretty  well  controlled.  In  some 
 zones,  containers  are  your  only  option 
 in  the  winter.  you  can  keep  the 
 container  in  spots  where  you  can  keep  it 
 warm  and  keep  it  growing  all  year  or 
 most  of  the  year.  Other  than  those  minor 
 exceptions,  I  think  herbs  lend 
 themselves  very  well  to  growing  in  the 
 ground  or  in  containers,  and  it's  more 
 your  preference.  When  you're  producing 
 abundant  herbs,  the  problem  is  abundant 
 herbs.  How  do  you  ensure  that  you  get 
 the  greatest  amount  of  use  from  them  and 
 you  never  have  to  go  buy  one  at  the 
 supermarket  again?  One  of  the  ones  that 
 I'm  an  expert  on  because  my  grandfather, 
 John  Valentino,  taught  me  this  method  of 
 drying  oregano  that  makes  oregano 
 something  that  you'll  almost  want  to  put 
 on  every  dish.  A  little  odd  on  chowine, 
 but  try  it.  There  are  others  you  can  dry 
 and  create  the  same  type  of  product  and 
 use  it  year  round.  The  proper  harvest 
 time  is  just  when  it  starts  to  bloom. 
 There's  a  correlation  between  just 
 starting  to  bloom  and  the  most  flavor  in 
 the  leaves.  You  can  cut  off  as  much  or 
 as  little  as  you  want.  When  we  cut  it, 
 uh,  we're  going  to  get  the  flowers  and 
 the  leaves.  We  end  up  with  bundles  like 
 this.  This  is  the  drying  process.  And 
 you'll  usually  let  it  dry  a  couple  of 
 weeks.  I  don't  like  to  let  it  dry  too 
 long  or  it  loses  its  color  completely. 
 It  turns 
 brown.  You  can  see  there's  dried  leaves 
 and  there's  dried  flowers.  All  good  for 
 the  final  product.  So,  what  I  do  is  you 
 just  strip  it  into  a  colander.  I  usually 
 use  a  colander  that  looks  a  little  more 
 oldworld  than  this  one,  but  any  colander 
 will  work  fine.  And 
 then  we  uh  just  rub  it  into  the 
 colander.  flowers  and  leaves.  It  makes 
 it  so  you  don't  get,  you  know,  the  big 
 stems  and  you  end  up  with  a  product  that 
 looks  like  this.  Smells  fantastic.  This 
 is  the  finished  dried  oregano.  So  then  I 
 just  pour  it  into  the 
 jar.  I'm  going  to  do  this  whole  bag.  You 
 know,  I've  got  quite  a  bit  here.  So,  I'm 
 probably  going  to  get  maybe  two  jars 
 like  this.  Well,  I'd  recommend  you  use 
 all  that  you  make  in  the  course  of  a 
 year  and  then  you  make  more  because  it 
 gets  less  and  less  aromatic  and 
 flavorful.  The  only  way  you  can  grow 
 herbs  like  this  is  to  subscribe  to  our 
 channel  and  that's  a  very  simple  thing 
 to  do  and  it'll  be  tremendously  helpful 
 to  us  and  allow  us  to  keep  doing  videos 
 like  this  that  we  hope  help  you.  If  this 
 one  was  helpful,  please  like  it.  If  you 
 have  comments,  leave  them  below.  And  if 
 you  have  questions,  we'll  answer  them. 
 So,  if  you  want  to  branch  out  a  little 
 beyond  only  growing  herbs,  you  can  grow 
 tomatoes  and  corn  and  all  kinds  of 
 things  that  will  taste  better  than  those 
 you  buy  in  the  supermarket.  Check  out 
 this  video  of 
 ours.  Jib,  introduce 
 Kobe.  And  then,  uh,  we  have  Piper.  Oh, 
 yeah.  Piper  wants  to  be  on  camera.  Yeah, 
 Piper.  What  do  you  think?  Perfect. 
 Right.  What  are  you  going  to  use  it  in?

---

 Did  you  know  that  one  in  six  people  kill 
 every  plant  they  grow?  And  it's  not 
 because  they're  part  of  a  massive 
 conspiracy  to  kill  plants.  It's  because 
 they  don't  know  the  most  crucial  part  of 
 how  to  keep  a  plant  alive.  Recently,  I 
 was  called  and  interviewed  by  NPR  to  be 
 a  part  of  their  radio  program  on  this 
 very  topic.  Did  you  have  that  outside?  I 
 did.  While  talking  over  Zoom,  Valentino 
 checked  for  a  few  indicators,  and  that's 
 what  inspired  us  to  make  this  video.  So, 
 today,  I'm  going  to  teach  you  the  most 
 crucial  steps  to  keep  a  plant  alive  and 
 happy,  whether  it's  inside  or 
 outside.  You  put  your  plant  in  what  you 
 think  is  the  perfect  spot  in  your  house, 
 and  then  it  suffers.  Things  don't  go 
 well.  Here's  what  you  need  to  do  in 
 order  to  optimize  the  exposure.  So  these 
 improper  exposure  issues  manifest 
 themselves  in  different  ways  depending 
 on  if  it's  too  little  sun  or  too  much 
 sun.  You  can  recognize  scorched  leaves 
 from  sun.  Usually  happens  in  the  summer 
 when  it's  the  hottest.  Then  you  have  the 
 other  side  of  exposure  problems  where 
 not  enough  sun,  not  enough  light. 
 Usually  you  just  see  kind  of  a  dormant 
 plant.  Doesn't  do  much.  If  it's  supposed 
 to  bloom,  it  doesn't  bloom.  uh  if  it's 
 supposed  to  have  some  vibrantly  colored 
 leaves,  it  doesn't  have  vibrantly 
 colored  leaves.  With  an  indoor  plant, 
 you  could  move  it.  With  an  outdoor 
 plant,  you  can  also  move  it,  but  it's 
 more  work  and  you  have  to  dig  it  up  and 
 find  a  better  spot  for  it.  But  in  either 
 case,  the  plant  can  be  moved.  If  it's  an 
 outside  plant  and  the  exposure  is  a 
 problem  because  of  a  big  building  or 
 something,  then  there's  no  other  option. 
 If  exposure  is  a  problem  because  of  a 
 tree  or  a  big  hedge  or  something,  you 
 can  do  some  pruning  and  let  in  light. 
 For  exposure  problems,  they  can't  really 
 be  determined  that  it's  a  problem  for  2 
 to  3  months  because  you  need  to  give  the 
 plant  a  chance  to  acclimate  and  perform. 
 Usually  after  a  week  or  two,  if  it's 
 exposure,  you're  going  to  see  nothing. 
 There's  not  many  problems  that  can  be 
 created  in  a  week  or  two. 
 So,  let's  say  you're  watching  this  video 
 and  you  look  at  your  soil  and  you  see 
 this  desert  looking  mess.  Don't  panic. 
 There's  ways  to  fix  that.  The  most 
 important  first  step  is  to  infuse  them 
 with  life.  And  many  times  that  will 
 mitigate  the  problems  with 
 micronutrients  and  macronutrients.  Most 
 likely,  our  soils  aren't  necessarily 
 bad.  They're  all  different.  You  know, 
 some  are  sandy,  some  are  clay,  some  are 
 alkaline,  some  are  acid,  but  most  aren't 
 as  full  of  beneficial  soil  life  as  we 
 would  like.  Bacteria,  fungi,  protozo,  a 
 good  neatodes.  So,  in  other  words, 
 complex  life.  The  whole  idea  of  life  in 
 the  soil  is  we  can  create  soil  or 
 improve  soil  to  a  degree  that  it  can 
 create  its  own  macronutrients  and  its 
 own  micronutrients.  And  that's  why  I'm 
 not  a  big  believer  in  saying,  I  tested 
 my  soil  and  I'm  a  little  low  in  boron, 
 so  I'm  gonna  go  get  some  boron  and  put 
 it  in  my  soil.  I'd  much  rather  try  to 
 build  my  soil  full  of  life.  And  then 
 you're  going  to  have  a  soil  that  becomes 
 balanced.  In  order  to  improve  life  in 
 your  soil  outdoor  products  like  a  good 
 compost  uh  a  good  compost  tea  our 
 maximize  optimize  nourish  biosol  our 
 penetrate  liquid  biotiller  those  are  all 
 products  that  are  part  of  a  system  that 
 build  soil  life  do  it  easily  and 
 conveniently  inside  you  can  still  use 
 some  of  the  same  products  our  uh 
 optimize  plus  is  good  and  things  like 
 earthworm  castings  can  be  used  and  even 
 a  little  bit  of  compost  or  if  you  have  a 
 compost  tea.  One  thing  that  I  do  that  I 
 think  is  very  helpful  in  building  a 
 little  bit  of  life  in  my  indoor  potting 
 soil  is  every  time  I  water  I  use  a 
 little  bit  of  penetrate  liquid  biotiller 
 which  has  kelp,  sapinin,  humic  acid  and 
 all  of  those  things  are  really  good  even 
 for  indoor  plants.  If  you  subscribe  to 
 our  channel,  your  plants  will  no  longer 
 struggle.  They  will  thrive.  So,  let's 
 say  you  do  everything  right  in  terms  of 
 your  soil  and  it's  lively.  There's  still 
 ways  that  you  can  not  be  successful  in 
 growing  a  healthy  plant.  And  one  of 
 those  is  improper  planting.  So,  here's 
 how  you  can  ensure  that  you  plant  your 
 plant  properly.  The  most  common  improper 
 planting  that  is  really  bad  for  plants 
 with  the  exception  of  tomatoes  is  when 
 they're  buried  too  deeply.  Optimal 
 height  is  whatever  the  stem  and  top  of 
 root  ball  height  is  when  you  buy  the 
 plant  from  the  nursery  or  if  you're 
 transplanting  it.  Keep  that  and  maybe 
 even  plant  that  half  an  inch  or  an  inch 
 higher  than  the  finished  grade.  And  that 
 when  you  put  mulch  around  it,  you  don't 
 mulch  real  high  up  around  the  stem. 
 Burying  it  too  deeply  is  a  common 
 problem  that  we  see  when  we  go  back  and 
 try  to  do  a  post-mortem  on  dead  plants. 
 Sometimes  that's  not  because  the  person 
 did  that  upon  planting,  but  they  dug  a 
 very  large  hole  and  then  they  settled. 
 Sometimes  you'll  see  if  you  look  at  uh 
 instructions  on  how  to  plant  plants  is 
 to  dig  the  hole  and  back  fill  it  and 
 then  fill  it  with  water  for  a  week  or 
 two  before  you  plant  the  plants  to  let 
 everything  settle.  Not  bad  advice.  We 
 want  to  figure  out  a  way  to  plant  plants 
 where  they  stay  just  a  little  bit  high 
 above  the  surrounding  grade.  And  that 
 way  water  can  fall  off  of  the  stem  or 
 the  trunk  and  not  congregate  around  the 
 base  of  the  plant.  Another  problem  which 
 isn't  as  common  is  the  plant  could 
 completely  fall  apart.  You  know,  the 
 roots  just  come  apart  and  the  soil  fall 
 apart  because  of  desiccation  because  we 
 we  lost  too  many  roots.  you  could  have  a 
 plant  die  and  you  can  have  the  opposite 
 problem  where  a  plant  has  been  in  a 
 container  too  long  and  they're  circling 
 roots,  you  know,  growing  around  each 
 other  and  there's  not  a  lot  of  soil  in 
 there.  It's  like  a  potbound  plant.  You 
 don't  recognize  that  and  you  don't  in 
 the  process  of  planting  it  kind  of 
 separate  the  roots  and  encourage  it  to 
 root  out  into  the  native  soil.  That  can 
 also  cause  a  problem,  but  it  wouldn't  be 
 a  real  fast  death.  that  would  usually 
 take  a  while  for  the  roots  to  continue 
 to  circle  around  each  other  and 
 basically  strangle  itself.  You  can 
 usually  tell  by  performance  when  you're 
 talking  about  indoor  plants  if  they're 
 starting  to  be  rootbound.  It'll  look 
 like  they  need  fertilizer  if  they're  if 
 they're  rootbound  because  there's  not 
 much  soil  left  because  the  roots  have 
 taken  all  the  capacity  of  the 
 pot.  We're  moving  along  here  in  a  way 
 that  you're  not  going to  kill  your 
 plant.  But  there  still  is  another  thing 
 that  you  have  to  be  very  careful  about 
 and  that's  proper  or  improper  watering. 
 Here's  how  you  know  that  you  water 
 properly.  One  of  the  difficulties  in 
 watering  is  how  you  tell  if  they're  over 
 watered  or  underwatered  are  similar  in 
 terms  of  how  it  looks.  So  you  have  to  be 
 digging  into  the  soil  and  feeling  it  and 
 if  you  have  some  people  use  moisture 
 meters  if  you  have  something  like  that 
 you  try  to  determine  well  what's  the 
 likelihood  here  based  on  what  I'm  seeing 
 in  the  soil.  What  kind  of  soil 
 environment  is  it  in?  If  it's  in  a  very 
 light  soil,  then  I  would  suspect  first 
 underwatering.  If  it's  in  a  very  heavy 
 soil,  clay-like  soil,  I  would  first 
 suspect  overwatering.  I'd  say  lots  of 
 potted  plants  die  from  overwatering.  My 
 own  indoor  plants,  it's  surprising  how 
 little  I  water  them.  Not  even  once  a 
 month,  but  I  have  a  lot  of  big  pots. 
 With  potted  plants,  it's  important  that 
 the  pot  drain.  It's  best  to  have  a 
 drainage  hole  that  water  goes  right 
 through.  Frequently,  people  send  us 
 emails  wanting  me  to  tell  them  how  much 
 to  water.  It's  a  difficult  thing  to  say. 
 They're  probably  going  to  be  able  to 
 determine  that  better  than  me  because 
 they  can  watch  the  plant.  They  know  what 
 kind  of  soil  they  have.  They  have  a 
 certain  kind  of  irrigation  system  or 
 maybe  they  water  by  hand.  And  those 
 variables  are  impossible  for  me  to  know. 
 It's  mostly  trying  to  water  as  little  as 
 possible  and  watching  them  carefully  and 
 see  how  they  respond  and  then  looking 
 for  signs  that  they're  underwatered  and 
 then,  you  know,  kind  of  going  from 
 there.  Everything's  going  great  and  then 
 you  see  a  problem,  a  yellow  or  brown 
 leaf  or  a  pest,  and  you  think,  I  can 
 solve  that  easily.  I'm  going  to  spray  it 
 with  a  chemical.  Hold  on.  I  don't 
 recommend  that.  And  here's  why.  with 
 chemical  fertilizer  or  chemicals  to 
 fight  pest  and  disease.  These  are  one  of 
 the  most  common  ways  that  plants  are 
 damaged.  Maybe  the  instructions  aren't 
 followed  carefully  or  understood 
 completely  outside.  If  you  have  a  lot  of 
 hot  weather  and  without  water,  these 
 chemicals  can  be  very  toxic.  So,  our 
 recommendation  is  to  use  organic 
 products.  If  you  have  some  bug  or 
 something  on  your  plants  outside  or  even 
 inside,  the  first  step  is  to  just  wash 
 them  off  with  water.  We  want  to  start 
 with  the  least  toxic  things  and  we  would 
 almost  never  recommend  a  chemical. 
 There's  lots  of  organic  ways  to  address 
 pest  and  disease.  Back  to  healthy  soil 
 that  will  make  it  so  you  don't  get  pest 
 and  disease  or  very  rarely  do.  It's 
 incredible  the  natural  mechanisms  that 
 soil  have  if  it's  healthy  soil.  They  can 
 do  all  kinds  of  incredible  things, 
 including  making  its  own  natural 
 pesticide  in  a  way  that's  all  done 
 underneath  our  feet  without  us  having  to 
 apply  anything.  Sometimes  gardening  or 
 successful  gardening  is  a  little 
 mysterious.  Let's  say  you've  done 
 everything  right,  your  soil,  your 
 watering,  your  planting  techniques, 
 everything's  perfect,  and  yet  it's  still 
 not  thriving  or  blooming  like  you  want 
 it  to.  There  could  still  be  one  more 
 factor  outside  of  all  of  these  things 
 we've  just  talked  about.  What  we  might 
 call  environmental  stressors.  Maybe 
 you're  in  the  wrong  zone.  Your  highs  and 
 lows  aren't  proper  or  the  humidity  in 
 your  house  is  improper.  Or  you  could  be 
 just  too  hard-headed  like  me  and  try  to 
 grow  black  bamboo  inside  and  it  just 
 needs  to  be  outside  in  order  to  thrive. 
 My  wife  keeps  telling  me  it's  dead,  but 
 it's  not  dead.  It's  just  severely 
 underperforming.  If  I  just  came  and  I 
 saw  this  plant  look  like  this,  I'd  first 
 check  the  soil  and  try  to  determine  what 
 watering  regimen  was  being  used,  I 
 happen  to  know  it's  properly  moist.  It's 
 been  properly  watered.  It's  also  good 
 soil  because  I  put  it  in  and  I  have 
 infused  it  with  life  and  a  little  bit  of 
 fertility  and  also  I  have  it  in  about  as 
 light  a  place  as  I  can  find  in  my  house. 
 Now,  I  also  know  because  I'm  the  one 
 that  planted  it  that  black  bamboo  don't 
 really  grow  inside.  This  one  I'm 
 attributing  to  the  fact  that  it  needs  to 
 be  outside.  And  I'm  going  to  bring  in 
 another  outside  plant  and  I  think  it's 
 got  a  better  chance  of  making  it.  It's 
 actually  a  type  of  holly.  If  you'd  like 
 to  follow  along  and  see  if  I  can  have 
 success  planting  an  outdoor  plant 
 inside,  please  subscribe  to  our  channel. 
 In  order  to  get  this  out,  squeeze  the 
 pot  to  loosen  it  and  allow  everything  to 
 release.  We'll  pull  it  right  out  of 
 there.  As  you  can  see,  this  is  not 
 rootbound.  It  has  some  roots  at  the 
 bottom,  which  will  just  loosen  up  a 
 little.  Very  healthy  looking  roots.  They 
 should  usually  be  not  a  real  dark  color 
 and  not  real  big.  And  you  should  have  a 
 lot  of  small  what  looks  like  new  roots. 
 I  like  this  um  black  gold  potting  soil. 
 We'll  use  it  to  back  fill.  Try  to  do  it 
 without  making  too  big  a  mess.  We  don't 
 want  to  bury  this.  So,  if  we  put  this 
 down  lower  and  put  the  soil  up  to  here, 
 that's  bad  for  almost  any  plant.  We've 
 kind  of  established  where  the  crown  of 
 the  plant  is  and  the  root  ball.  And 
 that's  and  we  want  to  leave  that  as  our 
 highest  point.  And  then  we'll  put  the 
 soil  all  around  it.  One  thing  that  I  do 
 that  I  think  is  very  helpful  in  building 
 a  little  bit  of  life  in  my  indoor 
 potting  soil  is  every  time  I  water  I  use 
 a  little  bit  of  penetrate  liquid 
 biotiller  which  has  kelp,  sapinin,  humic 
 acid  and  all  of  those  things  are  really 
 good  even  for  indoor  plants.  So  then  we 
 just  soak  this  in  very  well.  I  try  to 
 get  it  everywhere  and  get  it  to  kind  of 
 saturate  the  soil  and  it's  very  light 
 soil  so  it's  going  to  drain.  Was  there 
 something  we  left  out  regarding  your 
 struggling  plant?  If  there  is,  let  us 
 know  in  the  comments  below.  We'll  try  to 
 help  you.  Like  the  video  if  you  found  it 
 helpful  and  we'll  keep  making  more 
 videos  like  this  if  uh  they  are  helping

---

 Chip  and  I  strongly  believe  that  if  life 
 gives  you  lemons,  you  should  make  a 
 lemon  arbor.  This  lemon  arbor  was 
 ignored  for  many  years.  It  was  planted 
 20  years  ago  and  then  two  years  ago  we 
 came  in  to  make  it  look  like  a  lemon 
 arbor  and  not  like  a  bunch  of  sick  lemon 
 trees  growing  straight 
 up.  I  think  in  about  one  more  year  we 
 can  compare  this  to  our  ideal  lemon 
 arbor  picture  and  they'll  be  very 
 similar.  Okay,  Chip,  can  you  talk?  I'm 
 John  Valentino,  president  of  John  and 
 Bob's  Corporation.  Here  with  Chip 
 Valentino,  vice  president  in  charge  of 
 turning  lemons  into  lemon  arbors.  So, 
 after  the  initial  improvements  that  we 
 did  a  little  over  a  year  ago,  now  it 
 needs  about  once  a  year  pruning,  tying, 
 and  it's  right  now  ready  for  it.  You  can 
 see  you've  got  a  lot  of  branches  that 
 are  just  coming  out  into  the  walkway. 
 So,  as  you  can  see  in  this,  it's 
 producing  a  lot  of  straight  up  shoots, 
 which  don't  do  us  any  good  in  terms  of 
 looking  like  an  arbor.  So,  you'd  select 
 those  strategically  and  bend  them  over 
 and  tie  them  so  that  we  create  this 
 arbor  effect  with  the  branches.  You 
 might  pick  an  interval  of  branches.  You 
 don't  want  to  use  the  ones  that  are  all 
 growing  in  the  same  spots.  I  don't 
 believe  any  were  tied  when  we  first 
 started.  I  think  they  did  away  with 
 their  plan  for  a  lemon  arbor  right  after 
 they  planted  the  lemons  because  there 
 was  no  sign  of  them  being  tied  and 
 trained  properly.  The  horicultural  green 
 tape  is  my  favorite  thing  to  use  as  we 
 tie  these.  That's  pretty  good  for 
 branches.  If  you  use  anything  heavier 
 that  doesn't  have  give,  then  it  digs 
 into  the  branches.  After  we  tie  them, 
 then  we  go  into  pruning  where  we  clean 
 the  sides  up.  We  cling  even  the  inside 
 up  so  that  you  have  a  clear  path  to 
 walk,  a  clear  path  to  view.  On  the  side, 
 you  mostly  clear  it.  We  want  the  growth 
 over  the  arbor,  not  beyond  that.  The 
 pruning  will  be  very  logical  after  the 
 tying.  You're  going  to  prune  everything 
 that  doesn't  lend  itself  to  that  look  of 
 lemon  arbor.  It's  not  like  certain 
 branches  need  to  come  off.  It's  more 
 like  all  the  branches  can  be  considered 
 to  come  off.  Whatever  is  in  the  way  of 
 it  looking  like  the  type  of  arbor  you 
 want.  One  that  is  a  great  example  that 
 needs  to  be  pruned  is  like  right  here. 
 It's  in  our  way.  We  don't  want  this  to 
 continue  to  get  bigger.  So,  we  would  go 
 to  where  it  starts  and  we  prune  that 
 off.  And  we  kind  of  repeat  that  in  a  lot 
 of  spots  where  we  think  the  growth  is 
 going  to  impact  our  ability  to  walk  the 
 arbor.  Now,  this  is  a  good  example.  This 
 one  could  impact  it,  but  instead  of 
 clearing  it  of  all  greenery  and  all 
 ability  to  produce  lemons,  maybe  we  just 
 shorten  it  and  we  cut  it  back  to  a  bud 
 here.  And  that  way  we  get  some  nice 
 growth  on  the  sides  on  the  inside  and 
 it's  not  just  clear-cut,  you  know, 
 branches.  And  I  like  that  we  see  leaves. 
 In  fact,  I  wouldn't  mind  if  there  were 
 more  leaves  on  this  to  some  degree.  I 
 think  the  exposure  is  uh  fighting 
 against  us.  We're  close  to  the  house 
 here.  So,  that's  your  choices.  You  can 
 look  at  a  branch  and  go  all  the  way  back 
 and  remove  it  if  it's  in  the  way,  or  you 
 can  go  back  to  a  bud  and  trim  it.  This 
 one  I  was  thinking  of  trimming  back  to 
 this  bud,  but  I  see  two  lemons  right 
 here.  I  like  lemons  down  low.  Easy  to 
 pick.  So,  I  think  I'm  going  to  leave 
 those  two  lemons.  At  some  point  in  the 
 future  after  the  crop,  maybe  we'll 
 consider  pruning  this  back.  The  only  way 
 to  get  a  healthy,  strong  growing,  pest 
 and  diseasefree  lemon  arbor  is  to 
 subscribe  to  our  YouTube  channel.  So  the 
 key  to  making  lemon  trees  grow  in  a  very 
 healthy  manner  is  soil.  The  way  you 
 maximize  the  health  of  plants  is  with  a 
 balance  of  nutrients.  That's 
 macronutrients,  micronutrients,  enzymes, 
 and  even  minerals.  And  the  best  way  to 
 get  a  balance  of  all  of  those  is  via  the 
 soil.  We  infused  the  soil  with  life, 
 beneficial  bacteria,  fungi,  good 
 prozzoa,  good  neatodes.  Let's  get  the 
 soil  as  healthy  as  possible.  Then  you 
 start  to  get  this  complex  life  that  is 
 key  to  allowing  your  plants  to  be  as 
 healthy  as  possible.  There's  several 
 ways  to  infuse  your  soil  with  life. 
 Earthworm  castings  are  a  good  way, 
 although  to  do  it  over  a  big  area  does 
 tend  to  be  expensive.  Compost  is  great. 
 Compost  tea  is  excellent.  What  we  used 
 was  very  convenient.  a  granular  product 
 we  call  blend  and  we  just  applied  it 
 topically  and  then  our  penetrate  liquid 
 biotiller  and  we  sprayed  right  over  the 
 top.  They  do  very  similar  things  to  what 
 compost  and  compost  tea  does  but  they  do 
 it  with  just  once  or  twice  a  year 
 applications.  Lemons  can  be  subject  to 
 pest  and  disease  like  mold,  rust,  aphid. 
 All  of  those  things  can  be  discouraged 
 by  healthy  soil.  Up  to  70%  of  pests 
 start  in  the  soil.  One  of  the  real  good 
 strategies  is  if  you  build  life  in  the 
 soil  that  those  pests  will  be  eradicated 
 before  they  become  pests  while  they're 
 still  in  the  soil.  Beneficial  microbes 
 eat  the  beginning  forms  of  pests.  If  you 
 rely  on  only  synthetic  fertilizer  to 
 feed  trees,  then  you  don't  have  the 
 infrastructure  in  the  soil  there  to 
 prevent  and  defeat  pest  and  disease.  If 
 you  do  run  into  some  pest  or  disease 
 problem,  use  some  kind  of  organic 
 product  that's  good  for  the  plant,  good 
 for 
 soil.  Wow,  this  got  some  nice  lemons 
 here,  huh?  Yeah,  there's  lots  of  good 
 varieties  of  lemons.  Lisbon  and  Eureka 
 are  probably  the  two  most  popular.  And 
 that  produces  a  classic  lemon.  And  then 
 there's  some  other  varieties.  There's 
 one  called  Ponderosa  that  produces 
 really  big  lemons.  Maybe  this  is 
 Ponderosa.  It  was  planted  before  we  got 
 here,  so  we're  not  sure  what  variety. 
 Lots  of  choices.  All  of  them  would  work 
 fine  to  make  a  lemon  arbor.  You  can 
 build  the  arbor  first,  which  seems  like 
 a  straightforward  way  to  do  it,  or  you 
 could  plant  the  lemons  first  and  not  let 
 them  grow  too  much  and  then  build  the 
 arbor.  Lemons  do  grow  pretty  fast.  So, 
 you  should  be  able  to  have  something 
 that  looks  a  little  bit  like  a  lemon 
 arbor  within  3  years.  We  hope  our  video 
 on  the  lemon  arbor  has  been  helpful.  If 
 you  have  any  comments,  put  those  in 
 below.

---

 It's  been  about  3  years  since  we  came 
 back  to  this  garden  to  turn  it  into  a 
 zeroscape  water  efficient  garden  from  a 
 water  thirsty  fescue  front  lawn.  We're 
 going  to  walk  you  through  the  garden  and 
 show  you  how  things  have  changed  over 
 the  years.  This  is  one  of  my  favorite 
 examples  of  a  garden  that  surprises 
 people  that  we  can  still  label  it 
 zeroscape  and  water 
 efficient.  I'm  John  Valentino,  president 
 of  John  Corporation.  I'm  here  with  Chip 
 Valentino,  vice  president  in  charge  of 
 zeroscape  and  lowmaintenance  gardens. 
 That's  really  one  of  the  attractions  of 
 this  garden  is  the  owner  hasn't  been 
 doing  much  to  it.  It's  on  its  own  and 
 it's  fending  very  well  for  itself.  We 
 have  been  doing  gardens  like  this  in  the 
 Fresno  area  for  a  very  long  time.  We're 
 now  in  our  46th  year  in  business.  So, 
 let's  start  the  tour.  Let's  go,  Chip.  So 
 this  path  which  has  a  nice  steel  edging 
 on  either  side,  you  can  see  it's  holding 
 up  very  well  by  kind  of  impregnating 
 uh  pearavevel  or  any  stone  into 
 decomposed  granite.  If  you  want  to  see 
 exactly  how  we  did  that,  check  out  that 
 video.  It  creates  a  way  to  go  from  the 
 main  walk  to  the  backyard  and  then  it 
 has  a  nice  seating  area  right  before  you 
 get  into  the  backyard,  making  it  more 
 interactive.  I  like  this  idea  of 
 interactive  gardens.  We  can  walk  through 
 it  to  the  front  door.  We  can  experience 
 interesting  things  along  the  way.  And  we 
 can  take  a  detour  and  go  to  the  backyard 
 and  have  a  seat.  In  this  planting  area, 
 we  did  make  a  recent  change  or  Eileen 
 made  a  recent  change  in  that  we  had  this 
 laapy  in  the  background  here  and  it 
 wasn't  doing  that  well.  Plus,  it  was  a 
 little  small  to  be  seen  over  these  other 
 plants,  white  rasleberry  and  the  sea 
 lavender.  So,  she  took  out  laria  and  put 
 in  this  landra.  And  this  lander  is  a 
 great  addition.  Kind  of  wispy,  gets  a 
 little  taller  than  everything  else.  You 
 can  see  it  from  the  inside  and  the 
 outside.  So  that's  a  recent  addition. 
 Other  than  that,  this  planting  remains 
 similar  to  the  way  it  was  before. 
 Originally,  15  years  ago,  we  created 
 this  ledge  with  these  interesting  pots 
 and  this  dwarf  citrus.  A  lot  of  people 
 ask  me  about  putting  dwarf  citrus  in 
 pots.  You  can  see  it  can  last  15  years 
 or  more.  I  think  it's  a  little  more  than 
 15.  And  those  are  lemons  and  they're 
 doing  well.  This  area,  including  the 
 walk,  used  to  be  a  fescue  lawn.  When  we 
 came  back  three  years  ago  and  redid  it, 
 we  took  out  all  the  lawn.  We  added  these 
 Rouselia  St.  Elmo's  fire,  which  are 
 doing  great.  Our  ground  cover  has  done 
 an  excellent  job  here.  And  one  of  the 
 neat  things  about  it  is  it  takes  traffic 
 like  a  lawn.  You  can  mow  it  if  you  want. 
 Eileen  has  elected  not  to  mow  it.  And  as 
 the  years  have  gone  by,  she's  kind  of 
 gone  to  the  mode  of  wanting  less  and 
 less  maintenance.  So,  she's  stopped 
 mowing  it.  Very  low  maintenance,  very 
 low  water  using.  Really,  the  only  thing 
 necessary  is  to  edge  the  ground  cover. 
 It's  an  aggressive,  strong  growing 
 ground  cover.  So,  we  like  to  keep  it 
 under  control.  We  used  to  have  a  matein 
 here  that  was  part  of  the  original  about 
 15  years  ago  remodel,  but  it  would  burn 
 every  summer.  It  just  seemed  to  get  a 
 little  too  hot,  especially  when  large 
 street  trees  were  taken  out  because  the 
 trees  were  not  doing  well.  They  were  big 
 Modesto  ash.  We  replaced  them  with  these 
 beautiful  ginkos,  but  it  really  took 
 shade  away  from  the  garden.  And  once  we 
 took  that  shade  away,  this  matin  got 
 burned  in  the  summer.  So,  we  replaced  it 
 with  this  beautiful  flamethrower. 
 Cerseus,  fabulous  cultivar  of  Cerseus. 
 Not  only  blooms,  but  then  has  these 
 colorful  leaves.  Most  sources  once  they 
 bloom,  the  rest  of  the  year  is  a  little 
 bit  anticlimactic.  They're  bright  in  the 
 spring.  They  fade  a  little  bit  in  the 
 middle  of  the  summer,  but  then  you  get 
 more  color  in  the  fall.  Under  it  is  some 
 dwarf  thyme  that  Eileen  planted  mixed  in 
 with  beautiful  oxales.  Oxales  is  a  weed, 
 but  it  adds  a  nice  little  yellow  color 
 there  to  the  bluish  purple  bloom  of  the 
 creeping  time.  Then  we  walk  under  this 
 really  nice  green  Japanese  maple  which 
 we  planted  originally.  So  you  can  see 
 it's  now  15  to  20  years  old.  Multi- 
 trunk,  really  beautiful.  I  wouldn't 
 necessarily  consider  that  low  water  use, 
 but  when  it  gets  big  and  with 
 wellestablished  roots,  it's  uh  moderate. 
 And  as  we  go  up  the  walkway  headed  to 
 the  front  door,  it  opens  up  with  a  nice 
 little  water  feature  that  you  can  hear  a 
 little  bit  of  sound  from.  You  can  see 
 the  fountain  itself  has  some  water 
 plants  surrounded  by  boxwood.  These 
 spectacular  marmalade  sky  flora  bunda 
 roses.  One  of  my  favorites.  Really 
 looking  absolutely  outstanding.  I  I  love 
 that  color  especially  contrasted  with 
 the  iceberg  roses  behind  it.  And  then  we 
 come  to  our  seating  area  which  has  some 
 standard  privet  or  legustrum.  Very  nice 
 shady  spot  to  sit  and  contemplate  the 
 neighborhood  or  talk  to  Chip.  Chip,  you 
 want  to  sit  down  on  the  Chip  might  want 
 his  own  seat  here.  Let's  see.  Uh,  he  can 
 sit  on  the  the  chair  next  to  me.  What  do 
 you 
 think? 
 Yeah.  Okay.  And  then  you  go  up  to  the 
 front  door.  In  the  front  door,  we  got 
 some  nice,  beautiful  pots  with  the  dwarf 
 mandarin  oranges  and  other  kinds  of 
 succulents.  Here  we  have  two  small 
 evergreen  flowering  trees  called 
 Raphaelpus  Majestic  Beauty.  You  know, 
 there's  not  a  lot  of  room  for  roots 
 around  here.  We've  got  paving 
 everywhere.  And  this  is  a  very  small 
 tree  that  wouldn't  have  a  root  problem. 
 So,  this  is  a  really  neat  rose  that's 
 rated  highly  by  all  those  people  that 
 rate  roses.  ice  cap  and  it's  very 
 similar  to  iceberg  but  it's  smaller. 
 Does  great  in  our  area.  Does  great  in 
 hot  areas.  It's  a  real  good 
 lowmaintenance  rose  and  doesn't  get  real 
 big.  And  that's  what  I  why  I  use  it  a 
 lot.  It  stays  what  about  3  ft  tall. 
 Doesn't  get  much  taller  than  that.  And 
 then  you  can  see  the  contrast  between 
 ice  cap  and  iceberg.  The  iceberg  gets 
 taller  and  has  bigger  flowers.  This  one 
 is  much  more  widely  used.  maybe  a  little 
 too  big  for  a  lot  of  spots.  And  so 
 that's  why  I  use  ice  cap  an  awful  lot. 
 They  both  bloom  more  than  once  a  year. 
 When  it's  warm,  they  keep  blooming.  You 
 can  cut  the  dead  blooms  off  and  then 
 they  bloom  again.  Iceberg  versus  ice 
 cap.  Both  really  useful.  Both  great  for 
 a  flush  of  white  bloom.  Really  a  nice 
 garden  that's  functional,  easy  to  care 
 for,  and  creative.  We've  got  a  front 
 courtyard.  We've  got  uh  walks  that  lead 
 you  through  it  in  all  different 
 directions  and  beautiful  spring  color 
 with  the  roses,  the  circus,  the  St. 
 Elmo's  fire  and  the  sea  lavender.  So, 
 the  way  you  apply  water  to  gardens  is  a 
 function  of  its  ability  to  use  less 
 water.  Some  people  don't  like  drip 
 irrigation,  and  it  does  have  its 
 drawbacks.  It's  probably  not  the  easiest 
 in  terms  of  maintenance,  and  it's  a 
 little  hard  to  tell  if  it's  working 
 properly.  But  if  you  want  to  minimize 
 water  use,  it  is  a  good  thing  to  use 
 because  drip  applies  water  very  slowly 
 and  precisely  rather  than  throwing  water 
 everywhere.  We  did  a  video  here  that 
 showed  how  we  converted  a  spray  system 
 that  was  throwing  water  everywhere  to  a 
 drip  system.  You  can  find  the  link  to 
 that  video  in  the 
 description.  Oh  yeah,  very  good  soil. 
 It's  a  little  drier  than  I  would  expect. 
 It  rained  here  a  little  yesterday,  but 
 uh  it's  not  all  that  moist,  but  um  very 
 nice  soil.  So,  one  of  the  whole  ideas  of 
 taking  out  the  lawn  and  putting  in  this 
 path  and  then  putting  in  the  ground 
 cover  and  the  St.  Elmo's  fire  and  all  of 
 these  plants  is  to  cut  way  down  on  water 
 use.  Importantly  along  with  that  where 
 we  changed  the  plant  pallet,  we  also 
 infused  the  soil  with  as  much  life  as 
 possible  by  using  our  blend  and  our 
 penetrate  liquid  biotiller.  Part  of  the 
 motivation  there  is  to  have  soil  that 
 can  get  by  with  as  little  water  as 
 possible  and  soil  that  sustains  plants 
 with  the  most  possible  bloom  and  color. 
 Those  both  are  the  result  of  building 
 soil  with  lots  of  microbiology.  So 
 beneficial  bacteria,  fungi,  prozzoa, 
 good  nematodeses.  We  keep  building  the 
 soil  as  much  as  we  can  with  these  simple 
 topical  applications.  So  Eileen  applies 
 our  blend  about  once  a  year.  And  in  an 
 established  garden  that  doesn't  have  any 
 problems,  that's  plenty.  If  you  have  an 
 established  garden  that  has  problems 
 with  fungal  disease  in  the  lawn  or  lots 
 of  pests  like  aphid  and  whitefly,  then  I 
 would  apply  it  at least  twice  a  year. 
 And  also  I'd  spray  on  penetrate  liquid 
 biotiller.  But  once  you  get  everything 
 established,  kind  of  a  maintenance 
 routine  of  once  a  year  is  sufficient. 
 And  that's  what  um  she's  doing  in  this 
 garden.  Let  us  know  if  you  enjoyed 
 watching  us  come  back  to  a  landscape  we 
 did  previously.  Like  this  video  and  we 
 can  do  more  of  these  where  we  revisit 
 gardens  that  have  been  done  previously 
 and  show  their  changes  and  show  their 
 growth.  Please  subscribe  to  our  videos. 
 If  you  have  any  comments  or  questions 
 for  us,  click  on  the  comments  below.

---

 Is  this  plant  dead,  dormant,  sick, 
 underperforming?  A  polite  way  of  saying 
 you're  about  to  rip  it  out.  I'll  provide 
 five  telltale  signs  determining  if  your 
 plant  is  still  alive  and  then  what  you 
 can  do  to  revive 
 it.  So,  the  first  thing  I  did  because  I 
 could  tell  the  tips  were  dead  and  I  knew 
 that  Mexican  bird  of  paradise  was 
 sensitive  to  frost.  We  didn't  have  any 
 real  brutal  cold  weather,  but  we  did 
 have  cold  weather  during  the  frost.  And 
 so  the  first  thing  I  did  is  I  just  cut 
 off  the  tips  to  see  if  they  were  brown 
 or  green.  As  I  went  down  just  a  few 
 inches,  I  saw  they  were  green.  I  didn't 
 have  a  reluctance  to  cut  it  off  because 
 I  knew  it  was  dead  anyhow.  It  would  have 
 to  come  off  at  some  point.  Now,  if 
 you're  reluctant  to  cut  off  the  tips 
 because  you're  going  to  kind  of  screw  up 
 the  form  of  the  plant,  you  could  start 
 by  just,  you  know,  using  your  fingernail 
 and  seeing  if  just  under  the  outside 
 layer  it's  green  or  not.  And  this,  you 
 can  see  it's  very  much  alive.  The  color 
 of  that  is  life.  You  can  see  this  branch 
 here.  No  matter  where  I  cut,  it's  brown. 
 And  so,  if  all  of  them  were  like  that, 
 then  we  would  say  it's  dead.  But  it's 
 just  that  one.  And  so  we  cut  that  off. 
 And  this  the  same  thing.  We  cut  it  and 
 it's  brown  and  it's  brown.  This  part  we 
 can  just  take  off  because  it's  dead.  It 
 was  killed  by  frost.  I'm  John  Valentino, 
 president  of  John  and  Bob's.  I'm  a 
 landscape  architect  and  a  landscape 
 contractor.  Chip  Valentino  is  my  vice 
 president  in  charge  of  reviving  plants. 
 I'm  at  my  front  yard  here  in  Fresno, 
 California.  Most  of  the  plants  are  doing 
 very  well.  They've  only  been  planted 
 about  6  to  8  months  ago,  but  we  have  two 
 plants  that  are  a  little  bit 
 problematic.  When  I  see  a  plant  that  has 
 buds  starting  to  emerge,  you  can  really 
 stop  all  other  investigation.  You  know 
 it's  alive.  So  then  what  I  did  when  I 
 clipped  it  and  I  got  down  to  what  looked 
 like  green  wood  to  me,  then  I  looked  for 
 buds  all  along  the  part  that  I  left. 
 Everywhere  there's  an  inter  node,  you 
 can  see  a  bud  is  going  to  sprout.  We 
 celebrate  that  and  with  a  hallelujah. 
 This  thing  is  alive.  Just  needs  a  little 
 warmer  weather  and  it's  going  to  sprout 
 everywhere.  Which  makes  me  think  the 
 other  two  on  the  other  side  of  the 
 driveway.  Although  it's  harder  to  find 
 these  lively  buds,  if  I  look  real 
 carefully  at  them,  I  think  the  same 
 thing  is  going  to  happen.  But  for  some 
 reason,  they're  a  little  behind.  So,  a 
 dormant  plant  sometimes  can  be  mistaken 
 for  a  dead  plant.  And  there  wasn't  one 
 thing  wrong  with  it.  It's  just  that  it 
 got  impacted  by  below  its  comfort  level, 
 cold  weather,  and  that  made  it  go  into  a 
 deeper  dormcancy  than  I  would  have 
 thought.  Another  thing  you  can  check  for 
 is  the  flexibility  of  the  branches.  I 
 determined  that  those  tops  were  not 
 flexible  at  all.  When  I  cut  them  off, 
 they  were  very  brittle.  Then  when  you 
 get  into  the  part  that's  alive,  it  is 
 flexible.  So  maybe  in  a  tree  or  a  bigger 
 plant,  that  is  a  good  test.  You  test 
 flexibility  and  it'll  be  brittle  if  it's 
 dead.  And  then  you  can  cut  it  and  see 
 that  it's  green  if  it's  alive.  And  you 
 can  scratch  it  and  see  that  it's  green 
 if  it's  alive.  These  are  all  related  to 
 the  same  thing.  And  you  could  have 
 flexibility  with  no  leaves.  That  would 
 tell  you  that  it's  still  alive.  Then  you 
 look  for  buds.  You  scratch  it.  You  cut 
 here  and  there.  Put  all  those  together 
 and  you  got  a  failsafe  way  of 
 determining  if  it's  alive  or  not.  So  the 
 color  is  a  big  determinant.  And  you 
 probably  know  what  color  it's  supposed 
 to  be.  I  planted  about  65  shore  junipers 
 and  some  of  them  look  fantastic  and  some 
 of  them  look  a  little  less  than 
 fantastic  and  some  of  them  look  a  lot 
 less  than  fantastic.  That  can  be 
 frustrating  and  also  puzzling  because 
 everything  was  the  same.  We  planted  them 
 all  at  the  same  time.  This  one  is  my 
 favorite  of  the  dead  ones.  I  would  say 
 this  is  not  going  to  come  back.  And  you 
 can  tell  it's  the  wrong  color.  No  sign 
 of  new  growth.  Look  at  how  brittle  it 
 is.  The  needles  just  come  off.  Even 
 though  I  can  find  a  little  tip  there 
 with  some  green  in  it.  This  one  is  not 
 worth  trying  to  save.  This  is,  I  would 
 say,  dead  or  a  week  from  being  dead.  If 
 it  was  a  tree,  you  know,  which  is  a  lot 
 harder  to  replace  in  terms  of  size,  I 
 would  try  to  revive  it.  But  since  it's  a 
 little  onegon  shrub,  it's  not  worth  the 
 trouble  of  reviving  it  from  this  point. 
 This  is  what  a  shore  juniper  is  supposed 
 to  look  like  at  its  age.  Beautiful.  Nice 
 green  color.  You  can  tell  it's  growing. 
 It's  put  on  new  growth.  Brendan  thinks 
 showing  my  mistakes  makes  good  videos. 
 So,  we're  going  to  show  a  colossal 
 mistake  I  made.  We  tried  to  grow  black 
 bamboo  inside.  So,  the  leaves  here  are  a 
 sure  sign  that  something  is  not  quite 
 right.  Look  at  these  leaves.  You  know, 
 poor  color,  lots  of  brown.  They  fall  off 
 easily  when  we  brush  through  it.  These 
 are  definitely  not  living  leaves.  The 
 leaves  are  the  biggest  indicator  here. 
 They  look  terrible.  Let's  plant 
 something  that  I  know  I  can  keep  looking 
 good.  These  black  bamboo  are  not  dead  or 
 really  dying.  They're  just  terribly 
 underperforming.  We're  going  to  replace 
 them.  So,  I'm  going to  transplant  these 
 to  outside  and  we're  going  to  replace 
 them  with  obviously  an  indoor  plant  in 
 our  area  that's  a  lot  easier  to  grow 
 than  black  bamboo  and  that's  fusing  or 
 weeping  fig.  After  we  determine  the 
 plant  is  alive,  then  we  can  look  at  ways 
 of  bringing  it  strongly  back  to  life. 
 The  three  factors  we  look  at  are 
 environment,  water,  and  soil. 
 Environmental  is  exposure  and  general 
 highs  and  lows  of  the  climate  where 
 you're  planting  it.  The  soil  obviously 
 an  important  part  of  it.  We  want  that 
 soil  as  healthy  as  possible.  And  then 
 the  watering,  get  everything  properly 
 watered.  If  we  combine  environment  with 
 soil  with  water  and  get  all  of  those 
 optimal,  all  of  these  plants  that  we've 
 determined  are  alive  are  going  to  come 
 back  strong.  To  ensure  everything  was 
 going  to  do  great  in  spring,  I  started 
 in  the  fall  about  once  a  month  uh 
 applications  of  penetrate  liquid 
 biotiller  particularly  on  my 
 underperforming 
 plants  in  improve  that  life  in  the  soil. 
 Penetrate  has  all  kinds  of  beneficial 
 bacteria  and  food  for  bacteria.  These 
 that  are  underperforming  will  spray 
 right  over  the  top  and  around  the  root 
 zone.  This  is  a  very  very  gentle  way  to 
 encourage  plants.  It's  not  like  using  a 
 synthetic  uh  liquid  fertilizer.  This  has 
 things  like  kelp,  beneficial  bacteria, 
 um  humic  acid,  sapinin.  So,  it's  a  very 
 gentle  way  of  kind  of  encouraging  plants 
 to  do  their  best.  And  I  like  to  use  it 
 on  a  regular  basis  when  I'm  trying  to 
 get  a  landscape  started  and  get  the 
 plants  to  look  as  healthy  as  possible.  I 
 think  the  water  and  the  soil  are  just 
 about  as  good  as  I  can  make  it,  but  I 
 think  the  environment  is  wrong.  So,  I'm 
 going  to  take  these  outside.  Inside,  I 
 found  it  uh  more  challenging  than  I 
 expected.  on  the  inside.  What  I  found  is 
 working  great  on  most  of  my  indoor 
 plants  is  Optimize  Plus,  which  is  our 
 indoor  fertilizer  that  maximizes  the 
 health  of  the  potting  soil.  You  know,  we 
 do  get  leeching  in  indoor  plants  because 
 the  soil  is  pretty  light.  So,  I  use 
 Optimize  Plus  and  I  use  a  little  bit  of 
 Penetrate  Liquid  Biotiller  every  time  I 
 water,  which  isn't  very  often.  So, 
 that's  going  to  be  our  formula  for 
 outside  and  inside.  We  expect  great 
 results.  We're  going  to  have  dinner  in  a 
 few  minutes,  so  we  got  to  end  the  video. 
 We  have  a  few  guests  over,  including 
 Brendan  here.  Please  like  the  video  if 
 you  liked  it.  If  you  hated  it,  I'm 
 sorry.  And  subscribe  if  you're  not 
 subscribed.  and  encourage  your  friends 
 and  relatives.

---

 We're  in  Fresno  in  this  small  intimate 
 little  backyard  that  we  just  renovated 
 with  10  different  mostly  dwarf  Japanese 
 maples.  If  you're  looking  for  Japanese 
 maples  for  your  small  garden,  this  is  a 
 great  video.  I'm  John  Valentino, 
 president  of  John  and  Bob's  Corporation. 
 I'm  here  with  Chip  Valentino,  vice 
 president  in  charge  of  beautiful  little 
 intimate  gardens.  We  are  going  to  take 
 you  on  a  tour.  Chip's  going  to  do  some 
 filming  along  with  Brendan.  Let's  go  see 
 the  garden.  And  here  we  have  Molly, 
 Chip's  friend.  Chip,  say  hello  to  Molly. 
 Hi,  Molly. 
 Whoops.  We  woke  her  up.  This  is  a  really 
 neat  uh  Japanese  maple  called  Joeen, 
 which  means  something  like  ladylike  in 
 Japanese.  The  only  one  in  the  whole 
 collection  here  that  is  not  really  a 
 dwarf.  It  gets  about  10  to  12  feet  tall. 
 We're  going  to  use  it  as  an  understory 
 plant  under  this  Chinese  pistache.  And 
 this  Chinese  pistache,  we're  hoping  will 
 branch  out  even  more  and  give  us  some 
 more  shade.  Little  bit  hard  in  an 
 existing  garden  to  nail  exactly  what  the 
 exposures  are.  We  know  that  these 
 colorful  Japanese  maples  with  finely 
 divided  leaves  need  quite  a  bit  of 
 shade,  afternoon  shade.  And  so  I'm  a 
 little  uncertain  how  this  is  going  to  go 
 with  shade  because  it's  hard  to  predict 
 the  sun  patterns  exactly.  We  know  some 
 of  them  will  be  fine  and  a  couple  of 
 them  might  not  be.  Then  we  use  these 
 small  dwarf  Japanese  maples.  This  one  is 
 called  dissectum.  Doesn't  get  taller 
 than  3  ft.  Won't  get  too  much  taller 
 than  it  is  now.  Just  spreads  out.  I  like 
 the  idea  of  keeping  them  thinned.  This 
 area  has  the  tomokyama.  I  have  a  couple 
 of  those  on  this  job.  And  then  the  dwarf 
 variegated  Lauria  and  the  juniperous 
 procumbent  nana.  This  used  to  be  a 
 potting  area.  We  kind  of  opened  it  up. 
 It  had  a  screen  of  privet  here.  We  took 
 out  the  privet  and  just  made  an 
 extension  of  this  same  planting  over 
 here.  We  screened  the  garage  wall  with 
 chameleia  sanka  sets  gekka  which  is  kind 
 of  a  tall  narrow  susan  chameleia  with  a 
 big  white  flower  with  a  yellow  center. 
 And  we  did  the  same  thing  along  the 
 fence  on  that  side.  You  can  see  the 
 fences  look  different  than  the  before 
 photos.  We  painted  them  dragon's  breath 
 to  make  it  a  little  more  recessive  since 
 it's  such  a  small  yard.  And  then  the 
 growth  of  these  chameleia  sankas  will 
 help  with  that  immensely.  They'll  get  as 
 tall  as  the  fence  and  almost  as  tall  as 
 this  garage  wall.  In  a  small  garden, 
 it's  hard  to  have  any  mystery  at  all.  So 
 when  you  walk  out  the  door,  in  a  lot  of 
 small  gardens,  you  just  see  everything. 
 So,  I  like  the  idea  of  leaving  that 
 hedge  there  because  it  gives  a  little 
 bit  of  mystery  and  encourages  you  to 
 walk  along  the  walk  and  be  surprised 
 with  what  you  encounter,  which  we'll 
 experience  here  today  in  this  tour.  As 
 we  keep  going,  we  see  a  different 
 example  of  a  dwarf  maple  all  along  the 
 way.  This  is  dissectum  veridus.  Most 
 people  just  call  it  veridus.  It's  a 
 small  dwarf  green,  finely  divided, 
 dissected  leaf.  And  again,  it's  going  to 
 spread  out,  not  get  too  much  taller  than 
 this.  And  then  under  it  we  have  the  same 
 planting  throughout  which  is  the 
 junipers  procumbent  nana  variegated 
 laopi.  If  you're  interested  in  Japanese 
 maples  as  a  general  topic,  we  just  did  a 
 video  about  them.  Check  out  that 
 previous  video.  Following  along  with  the 
 dwarf  theme,  I  used  this  really  neat 
 dwarf  ginko.  It  looks  just  like  a  genko 
 tree,  but  it's  a  cultivar  called  jade 
 butterfly.  It  grows  very  slowly  and  only 
 gets  about  10  ft  tall.  Along  with  the 
 dwarf  maples,  we  have  dwarf  ginko.  And  I 
 have  three  of  them  here.  And  then  we 
 encounter  two  more  Japanese  maples.  Acer 
 palmatum  shana.  S  h  a  i  na.  Really 
 spectacular  colors.  And  already  with  a 
 great  form.  I  just  thinned  it  out  a 
 little  so  we  can  see  the  structure  a 
 little  bit.  Again,  needs  some  protection 
 from  afternoon  sun.  Eventually  these 
 ginkos  will  provide  some,  but  we've  got 
 a  big  camper  above  us  that  it's  going  to 
 help.  This  one  is  called  fireglow. 
 Another  dwarf  Japanese  maple.  Same 
 plants  around  it  which  eventually  will 
 look  more  like  a  ground  cover  because 
 the  juniper's  procumbent  nana  will 
 spread  and  the  variegated  uh  larapi  will 
 spread  a  little  and  you  won't  see  so 
 much  bark  and  that'll  be  a  neat  effect 
 with  these  Japanese  maples  kind  of 
 springing  out  of  this  ground  cover.  As 
 we  go  a  little  further,  you  see  some  of 
 that  mystery  I  was  talking  about.  You 
 have  this  little  outdoor  structure.  We 
 planted  around  it  basically  with  the 
 same  theme.  Screen  the  fence,  make  a 
 separate  a  little  bit  of  a  separation 
 with  the  chameleia  susanqua  sets  gekka. 
 These  walks  and  this  surface  was 
 existing.  The  only  surface  we  changed 
 this  walk  here  with  the  pearavevel  was 
 existing  too,  but  we  redid  the  edging 
 with  a  new  pressuret  treated  wood  2x4. 
 And  then  uh  it  only  had  DG  before  we 
 compacted  a  thin  layer  of  pearavevel  on 
 it,  which  helps  with  it  not  tracking  and 
 being  a  little  more  permanent  than 
 decomposed  granite  by  itself.  And  then 
 these  I  have  one  on  either  side  of  this 
 seating  area  and  they're  called  peeves 
 starfish.  Again,  a  dwarf  red  Japanese 
 maple  and  doesn't  get  very  big.  In  this 
 area,  we  used  osmanthis  fragrance  as  the 
 evergreen  screen.  You  know,  Osmanthis 
 fragrance  has  a  flower  that  isn't  real 
 noticeable  visually,  but  in  a  scent 
 standpoint,  you  smell  something  and  you 
 say,  "Oh  boy,  that's  the  most  delightful 
 smell  I've  smelled."  Some  people 
 describe  it  as  apricot  preserves  or 
 peach  jam,  but  it's  a  small  little 
 inconspicuous  flower  with  a  great  smell. 
 So,  we've  surrounded  this  uh  the  fencing 
 uh  with  that  in  this  area.  As  we  go  past 
 the  peeve  starfish,  we  come  on  a  very 
 unusual  one,  which  is  a  weeping  dwarf 
 maple,  rusi.  And  that's  really  a  neat 
 habit.  It'll  almost  act  like  a  ground 
 cover  if  you  like  it.  I  like  maybe 
 leaving  it  a  little  bit  off  the  ground 
 and  enjoying  its  pendulus  habit  and 
 thinning  it  out  a  little  so  you  can  see 
 the  structure  of  it.  But  it  doesn't 
 really  get  much  taller  than  that  because 
 it  starts  weeping.  But  it  will  spread 
 quite  a  bit.  Next  to  that  is  another 
 tamokiama.  Then  I've  got  two  of  these 
 dwarf  ginkos  on  either  side  of  another 
 exit  and  entrance  in  and  out  of  the 
 garden.  And  the  sideyard,  we 
 transplanted  a  standard  iceberg  rose 
 with  two  colors  on  it  to  their  sideyard. 
 And  it's  a  really  a  charming  little 
 sideyard.  And  that  rose  is  doing  well. 
 Rose  trees  transplant  very  well. 
 Depending  on  your  environment,  but 
 especially  in  our  area  here  in  areas 
 that  have  hot  summers,  you  need  to  make 
 sure  you  have  the  right  exposure, 
 especially  these  finely  divided  ones 
 with  color.  They  tend  to  get  burned  in 
 the  summer  unless  you  can  provide  them 
 some  summer  shade.  The  other  thing  that 
 we  did  here  that  I  think  is  important 
 with  Japanese  maples  is  taking  great 
 care  to  infuse  the  back  fill  when  you  do 
 the  planting  with  beneficial 
 microbiological  life.  So  we  used  on 
 these  our  blend  which  is  optimize 
 maximize  nourish  biosol  and  we  also  use 
 penetrate  liquid  biotiller.  Even  though 
 the  soil  is  light  here,  it's  not  just 
 for  heavy  soil.  It  also  is  a  way  to 
 kickstart  building  life  in  the  soil, 
 which  you  need  to  do  in  sandy  soil  or 
 heavy  soil.  If  we  infuse  them  with  life, 
 they  will  take  hot  temperatures  much 
 more  successfully.  If  you'd  like  to  see 
 more  garden  walkthroughs  like  this, 
 please  subscribe  to  our  channel.  If  you 
 enjoyed  this  particular  walkthrough, 
 please  like  it  and  like  Chip.  Chip  will 
 appreciate  it.  Leave  a  comment  below 
 questions  you  might  have  about  Japanese 
 maples  or  osmanthus  fragrance  or  dwarf 
 ginkos  or  whatever  we  can  help  you  with. 
 Yeah,  it's  a  nice  little  yard.  We're 
 we're  really  eager  to  see  it  as  it 
 develops.  It  was  installed  some  30  years 
 ago.  The  landscape  architect  that  did 
 it,  Bob  Borro,  put  in  really  a  neat 
 little  circulation  pattern  and  so  we 
 just  stuck  with  that  and  just  changed  uh 
 the  plantings.  But  that's  it's  a  really 
 nice  circulation  pattern  in  a  small 
 garden.  It  gives  it  the  sense  of  more 
 space  than  is  actually  here.

---



---

 The  owners  have  shown  us  what  they  want 
 these  non-fruiting  olives  to  look  like. 
 I'm  going  to  show  you  how  to  prune  them 
 to  get  there.  These  techniques  that  I'm 
 going  to  show  you  will  apply  to  all 
 sizes  of  trees  and  actually  many  many 
 species  of  trees.  The  one  uh  distinction 
 here  is  fruing  trees  we'd  probably  use  a 
 little  different  methods,  but  these  are 
 non-fruiting  trees  and  I'm  going  to  show 
 you  how  to  get  there.  So,  the  tools 
 involved  are  very  simple  because  these 
 trees  aren't  that  big.  So,  I'm  going  to 
 use  some  what  is  traditionally  called 
 loppers.  Those  are  big  pruning  shears 
 that  you  operate  with  two  hands.  And 
 then  some  hand  pruning  shears.  A  lot  of 
 this  work  can  be  done  with  hand  pruning 
 shears  because  the  trees  have  only  been 
 in  the  ground  about  a  year  and  a  half.  I 
 only  recommend  sanitizing  pruning  shears 
 if  you're  pruning  trees  with  some  kind 
 of  disease.  In  this  case,  we  have 
 perfectly  healthy  trees.  No  need  to 
 worry  about  that.  Some  people  seem  to 
 think  it's  a  good  idea  to  put  some  kind 
 of  pruning  compound  on  the  larger  cuts. 
 Don't  do  it.  The  best  way  is  to  make 
 nice  straight  flat  cuts  and  allow  them 
 to  be  subject  to  the  air  and  good 
 circulation  and  they'll  heal  on  their 
 own.  The  very  lowest  small  branches  I'm 
 going  to  remove.  Some  are  on  the  inside, 
 some  are  on  the  outside.  So,  this  is 
 definitely  kind  of  gumming  up  the 
 inside.  It's  a  small  branch.  I  want  to 
 remove  all  of  these  small  branches  that 
 are  down  low  cuz  I'm  trying  to  raise  up 
 the  growth  in  general.  So,  I  take 
 these  and  by  getting  all  of  these  out, 
 it  allows  me  to  see  the  whole  thing  a 
 lot  better  and  then  I  can  get  in  easier 
 and  continue.  So,  this  is  another  small 
 one  that  for  one  thing,  it's  a  crossing 
 branch.  You  can  see  it's  crossing  with 
 this  main  branch  that  I'm  going  to  keep. 
 and  it's  goes  in  the 
 middle.  I'm  going  to  take  it  off.  The 
 one  thing  I  would  say  not  to  do  is  cut 
 branches  in  half.  That's  called  heading 
 back.  Instead  of  heading  back,  we're 
 going  to  be  thinning.  And  we're  going  to 
 be  removing  crossing  branches  and  we're 
 going  to  be  removing  a  lot  of  the 
 branches  in  the  center  to  let  in  light. 
 And  we're  going  to  be  directing  the 
 growth  up.  We  want  these  to  get  a  lot 
 taller.  So,  we're  going  to  pick  branches 
 that  are  going  up  and  remove  branches 
 that  are  going  to  the  side.  All  of  those 
 cuts  are  going  to  be  thinning  cuts  where 
 we  go  to  where  the  branch  originates  and 
 cuts  it  off  completely  instead  of  where 
 we  see  a  branch  we  don't  like  and  we  cut 
 it  in  half.  That's  a  heading  back  cut. 
 This  is  a  small  branch  crossing  this 
 major  branch.  We  don't  want  that.  We 
 don't  want  a  crossing  branch.  So,  we'll 
 take  this  small  one  out  as  close  to  its 
 origination.  Not  right  up  to  it.  You 
 leave  a  little  bit  and  it  heals  over, 
 but  pretty 
 close.  So,  some  of  these  I'm  just  trying 
 to  lift  up  the  growth.  The  other  thing 
 that  I  think  is  good  advice  is  to  go 
 relatively  slow  and  prune  less  than  you 
 think  you  want  to  prune  and  keep 
 stepping  back  and  looking  at  it  cuz  it's 
 easy  to  get  too  enthusiastic  and  then 
 you  go  back  and  you've  got  this 
 improperly  bare  tree.  It's  best  to  um 
 you  know  do  it  in  stages  and  keep 
 looking  at  it.  I  know  all  of  these  lower 
 ones  I  want  to  remove  because  I  want 
 this  tree  to  start  with  leaves  up  here 
 so  we  can  grow  these  upright  trees  that 
 give  us  room  to  get  by  when  we  walk  on 
 the  main  walk.  And  see  this  is  in  the 
 middle.  It's  crossing  with  that.  We 
 probably  take  them  both  out  and  they're 
 in  the  middle.  We  want  to  open  that  up  a 
 little.  This  one  looks  crossing  right. 
 So  we'll  come  over  here.  Take  it 
 out.  This  is  coming  over  and  crossing 
 way  over.  So,  I'm  going  to  take  that 
 whole  branch  out.  Okay,  now  I  got  it  to 
 a  point  where  I  want  to  look  at  it.  You 
 see  these  trees  kind  of  look  like  a  ball 
 of  green  leaves  and  you  can't  get  a 
 sense  of  the  structure  of  the  tree.  My 
 contention  is  trees  are  a  lot  more 
 attractive  if  you  can  see  their 
 structure.  That  happens  to  be  really 
 healthy  for  them,  too.  So,  we're  going 
 to  thin  them  out  in  a  way  that  their 
 structure  can  be  appreciated  and 
 enjoyed.  Also,  you  can  still  get  a  sense 
 of  where  they  are  and  what's  behind 
 them.  So,  it's  starting  to  take  form.  I 
 just  want  to  continue  with  the  same 
 process.  We  want  to  lift  it  up,  try  to 
 encourage  it  to  branch  up  and  kind  of 
 remove  some  of  the  weeping  nature  of  it, 
 even  though  it  does  tend  to 
 weep.  This  one  again  is  doing  a  lot  of 
 crossing.  So,  we'll  take  it 
 out.  We  have  these  principles.  We  don't 
 want  to  go  buy  them  100%  or  otherwise  if 
 we  see  something  that  violates  every 
 rule,  we  could  create  a  very  bare 
 looking  tree.  So,  we  want  to  kind  of  do 
 it 
 judiciously  and  with  some  calm,  not  in  a 
 frenzy.  This  one  here  kind  of  goes  over 
 and  starts  interfering  with  this.  So, 
 I'm  going  to  take  it  out.  And  now  I've 
 I've  definitely  has  the  middle  opened 
 up.  And  yet  I  still  have  some  little 
 branches  in  there.  And  I  like  that.  I 
 don't  want  to  clear  cut  it  in  the 
 middle.  And  I'm  finding  things  that  are 
 crossing.  And  we're  trying  to  encourage 
 this  to  grow 
 up  and  thin 
 it.  By  removing  the  weight  on  the  end, 
 we  can  get  them  to  grow  up. 
 You  can  see  as  we  remove  weight,  the 
 branches  lift.  Now,  this  is  kind  of 
 running  into  that.  We'll  take  it  out. 
 Again,  all  thinning  cuts,  we  go  back  to 
 where  these  branches  start.  Any  branch 
 like  this  that's  broken.  We're  going  to 
 take  that  off  completely  cuz  that's  not 
 going  to  be  strong.  I  think  I'm  going  to 
 take  this  one  out  completely  cuz  I'm 
 trying  to  raise  everything  up. 
 starting  to  look  much  different  now.  A 
 lot  of  these  are  growing  into  the  walk. 
 We  want  to  remove  those.  We  don't  mind 
 if  that  happens  up  higher,  but  we  don't 
 want  it  to  happen  down  low  cuz  we're 
 just  going  to  pick  the  main  structure. 
 So,  these  main  branches  here,  everything 
 else  will  cut  off  that's  down  low.  And 
 that'll  allow  us  to  see  a  nice  structure 
 for  the  tree.  And  the  other  thing  I  want 
 to  be  conscious  of  is  I  don't  want  to 
 take  so  many  leaves  off  that  we  don't 
 have  enough  to  feed  the  tree  because 
 it's  leaves  that 
 photosynthesize  and  actually  feed  the 
 tree  to  allow  it  to  continue  to  grow. 
 Even  though  I'm  going  by  these 
 principles,  I  still  want  to  leave  a  lot 
 of  growth  that  I  probably  will 
 eventually  take  off.  But  we  want  the 
 tree  to  have  enough  to  to  feed  itself 
 and  feed  more 
 growth.  Okay,  we're  getting  close.  Kind 
 of  go  all  around  it  and  clean  it  up.  Try 
 to  make  it  look  somewhat  even. 
 Does  it  look  uh  pretty  balanced  from  all 
 sides?  We  just  went  slowly,  stuck  to  the 
 principles,  and  you  end  up  with  a  nicely 
 thin  tree  ready  to  grow  up.  Hey,  look. 
 It  looks  so  much  better.  No  longer  big 
 balls  of  green  or  greenish  gray.  Now  you 
 can  see  the  structure.  They  look  like 
 trees  coming  into  their  own.  It's  really 
 a  big  improvement.  If  you  like  this 
 video,  please  like  it.  Subscribe  if  you 
 haven't  already  subscribed.  Leave  a 
 comment  if  you  have  any  questions  about 
 pruning  or  about  any  other  horicultural 
 or  landscape  design  issue.  I'm  happy  to 
 answer  it  or  give  it  my  best

---

 If  you  are  interested  in  Japanese 
 maples,  I'm  going  to  talk  about 
 different  sizes,  colors,  and  leaf  types. 
 We're  at  a  really  neat  little  garden  in 
 Fresno,  California,  and  we're  going  to 
 do  a  little  remodel  of  it.  You  can  hear 
 we  started  with  a  remodel.  One  of  the 
 things  I'm  going to  use  a  bunch  of 
 Japanese  maples.  Now,  you  might  say, 
 "This  garden  doesn't  look  big  enough  to 
 put  more  than  one  Japanese  maple  in." 
 That's  one  of  the  neat  things  about 
 Japanese  maples  is  they  come  in  all 
 sizes.  You  can  get  25  to  30  foot  and  you 
 can  get  dwarf  ones  that  only  get  3  to 
 four  to  5  ft  tall.  So,  the  size  of  them 
 really  does  vary.  Incredible  array  of 
 sizes.  I'd  say  the  smallest,  there  are 
 some  that  only  get  3  ft  tall.  I  haven't 
 seen  any  that  stay  smaller  than  that. 
 And  usually  they'll  show  a  range,  but 
 they  grow  very  slowly.  So,  it's  going  to 
 take  a  while  to  get  to  these  ultimate 
 sizes.  3  to  5t  tall.  That's  a  range  of 
 quite  a  few  varieties.  And  then  you  can 
 find  quite  a  few  varieties  that  are  5  to 
 8t  tall  and  quite  a  few  varieties  that 
 are  8  to  12  feet  tall.  And  a  lot  of  the 
 more  well-known  varieties  are  20  to  30 
 foot  trees.  So  there's  a  range  of  sizes. 
 For  this  project,  we're  going  to  pick 
 the  ones  that  are  in  the  3  to  7  ft 
 range.  A  couple  of  the  bigger  ones  maybe 
 will  rely  on  some  skillful  pruning  to 
 keep  them  down  to  5T  or  so.  They  vary  in 
 their  growth  habits,  but  the  three  main 
 are  upright,  spreading,  weeping,  and 
 everything  in  between  those.  Just  like 
 you  would  picture  a  weeping  willow, 
 that's  what  a  weeping  Japanese  maple  is. 
 The  leaves  are  in  three  categories.  A 
 maple  leaf,  and  then  one  what  we  might 
 call  a  ribbon  leaf.  than  one  that  seems 
 like  everybody  wants,  which  is  a  lace 
 leaf.  And  different  variations  of  those 
 three.  All  of  the  leaves  that  are  more 
 finely  divided  and  more  delicate  tend  to 
 be  more  sensitive  to  sun.  And  so  you 
 have  to  be  more  cognizant  of  its 
 exposure.  Make  sure  it  doesn't  get  much 
 or  any  afternoon  sun.  The  leaf  colors 
 are  tremendously  beautiful  and  varied. 
 You  can  find  orange,  purple,  red,  green, 
 yellow,  and  the  color  is  most  noticeable 
 in  the  spring  and  the  fall.  And  some 
 aren't  colored.  So,  they're  green  when 
 they  come  out  in  the  spring.  But  the 
 ones  that  are  colored  usually  don't  hold 
 their  color  through  the  middle  of  the 
 summer.  They'll  fade  just  because  of  the 
 heat  and  the  and  if  they  do  get  some 
 sun.  Another  fantastic  variation  with 
 Japanese  maples  is  the  bark.  Some  are 
 spectacular.  Probably  the  best  known.  is 
 one  called  sango  kaku  and  I  would  love 
 to  use  that  here  but  that's  25  ft 
 Japanese  maple  sango  kaku  has  this 
 beautiful  bark  adds  to  the  attraction  of 
 the  tree  even  in  the  winter  when  it 
 doesn't  have  any  leaves  it  has  this 
 vividly  colored 
 bark  maples  will  do  well  in  a  wide 
 variety  of  planting  zones  most  parts  of 
 the  country  can  grow  Japanese  maples 
 tend  to  like  slightly  moist  soil 
 particularly  ally  if  they  do  get  more 
 sun  than  they  should  get.  Uh  so  in  the 
 summer  if  you're  trying  to  keep  them 
 looking  good  and  not  burning,  then  you 
 want  to  make  sure  those  roots  stay 
 moist.  You  see  this  existing  boxwood 
 similar  to  how  you'd  water  boxwood.  You 
 learn  a  little  bit  about  their 
 characteristics  and  see  what  appeals  to 
 you  in  terms  of  leaf  color,  size  of  the 
 tree,  and  leaf  shape.  Check  out  what's 
 available  at  your  local  nurseries.  You 
 can  also  buy  small  ones  online,  getting 
 even  unusual  ones.  These  are  the 
 varieties  that  we  picked  for  this 
 garden  in  here.  We're  going  to  do  it 
 like  a  mini  arboritum.  They're  all  going 
 to  be  different,  dramatically  different 
 from  each  other.  And  that's  kind  of  the 
 the  theme  of  you  walk  through  and  you 
 see  this  little  mini  collection  of 
 Japanese  maples  that  all  have  different 
 colors  and  different  leaf  shapes. 
 There's  lots  of  varieties  of  Japanese 
 maple.  Maybe  you  have  a  favorite.  Let  us 
 know  about  it  in  the  comments.  Thanks 
 for  watching  and  keep  watching  if  you 
 want  to  see  this  garden  progress.  See 
 how  I  use  the  Japanese  maples  and  how  we 
 kind  of  spruce  this  up  and  plant  it.  And 
 if  you  like  this  video,  please  like  it 
 and  subscribe  to  us  what's  going  to  be  a 
 screen  of  Chameleia  Setsuga  up  against 
 the  garage  wall  there.  And  then  we're 
 going  to  spot  in,  and  maybe  not  exactly 
 where  I  drew  them,  but  uh  we're  going  to 
 spot  in  about  nine  of  these  dwarf 
 Japanese  maples.  Underneath  all  of  that, 
 we're  going  to  do  an  understory  planting 
 of  juniper  procumbent  nana  mixed  with 
 laapi  varagata  or  maybe  a  few  carrots  uh 
 ice  dance  or  something  similar.

---

 many  of  you  intuitively  think  the  way  to 
 make  your  plant  Bloom  its  best  is  to 
 fertilize  it  like  crazy  with  a  synthetic 
 fertilizer  that's  high  in  nitrogen  that 
 is  absolutely  false  in  fact  you'd 
 probably  just  end  up  with  too  much  Leaf 
 growth  and  um  soft  Woody  growth  and  not 
 the  bloom  that  we're  after  because  the 
 bloom  that  we're  after  is  accomplished 
 by  first  of  all  maximizing  the  health  of 
 plants  and  the  way  you  maximize  the 
 health  of  plants  is  with  a  balance  of 
 nutrients  that's  macronutrients 
 micronutrients  enzymes  and  even  minerals 
 and  the  best  way  to  get  a  balance  of  all 
 of  those  without  too  much  of  any  one  of 
 them  is  via  the  soil  so  we  want  to  feed 
 the  soil  and  that  soil  with  the 
 microbiology  in  it  will  provide  a 
 balance  that  will  encourage  all  kinds  of 
 plants  to  be  their  best  in  terms  of 
 Bloom  and  in  terms  of  vivid  colors 
 I'm  John  Valentino  president  of  Jon  AB 
 Bob's  Corporation  I'm  here  with  chip 
 Valentino  he  is  my  vice  president  in 
 charge  of  vivid  spectacular  blooming 
 plants  so  when  we  want  plants  to  bloom 
 we  really  need  a  very  delicate  balance 
 of  macronutrients  micronutrients  enzymes 
 and  minerals  best  way  to  get  that  is 
 through  the  soil  you  could  use  a  good 
 quality  compost  or  good  quality  compost 
 tea  what  we  used  was  very  convenient 
 a  granular  product  we  call  blend  and  we 
 just  applied  it  topically  and  then  our 
 penetrate  liquid  botell  and  we  sprayed 
 right  over  the  top  good  quality  compost 
 has  a  whole  host  of  things  that 
 basically  build  soil  life  what  we  did  is 
 we  isolated  those  ingredients  in  good 
 quality  compost  and  we  have  three 
 products  that  we  did  that  with  and  they 
 are  called  optimize  maximize  and  nourish 
 biosol  nourish  biosol  being  the  only 
 only  part  of  that  that  actually  has 
 macronutrients  and  then  the  other  two 
 have  all  kinds  of  food  for  the  soils 
 organic  matter  nutrients  beneficial  soil 
 life  minerals  minerals  really  the  key  to 
 unlocking  a  lot  of  microbiology  in  the 
 soil  that's  the  way  blend  mimics  good 
 quality  compost  but  in  a  way  that's  much 
 easier  to  use  because  you  don't  need  big 
 quantities  of  it  or  big  piles  of  it  you 
 can  spread  it  in  5  or  10  minutes  in  this 
 area  penetrate  liquid  biotar  ALS  Al 
 borrows  some  of  the  most  important 
 ingredients  from  good  quality  compost 
 namely  beneficial  bacteria  and  then  food 
 for  the  bacteria  liquid  humic  acid 
 saponin  kelp  so  when  you  combine  the 
 penetrate  liquid  bioer  with  the  blend 
 which  has  higher  life  forms  then  you 
 start  to  get  this  complex  life  that  is 
 key  to  allowing  your  plants  to  be  as 
 healthy  as  possible  which  is  what  allows 
 your  plants  to  bloom  like  crazy  if 
 they're  healthy  they  will  bloom 
 abundantly  late  winter  and  early  spring 
 is  the  time  to  start  feeding  that  soil 
 infusing  it  with  life  and  building  a 
 soil  that  will  sustain  lots  of  Bloom  we 
 had  a  major  misunderstanding  because 
 Brendan  thought  when  I  said  that  uh 
 we're  going  to  do  a  video  about  color  he 
 thought  I  meant  the  specific  colors  of 
 flowers  in  the  landscape  industry  when 
 we  say  we're  going  to  do  a  video  about 
 color  we  mean  about  blooms 
 lots  of  blooming  plants  that  look 
 fantastic  right  now  we're  going  to  show 
 you  a  few  of  them  these  Iceland  poppies 
 which  we  planted  just  5  weeks  ago  we  did 
 that  very  thing  we  fed  the  soil  and  the 
 poppies  right  when  we  planted  them  with 
 a  combination  of  our  blend  which  is 
 optimize  maximize  nourish  biosol  and 
 penetrate  liquid  bio  tillers  all  the 
 annuals  that  bloom  in  the  winter  and  the 
 early  spring  and  the  fall  are  looking 
 good  now  like  pansies  snapdragons  one  of 
 my  favorites  are  these  Iceland  poppies 
 in  our  area  right  now  all  of  the 
 different  Red  Buds  are  blooming  Laura 
 pedum  is  in  full  bloom  red  Japanese 
 maples  are  just  starting  to  show  their 
 red  leaves  a  lot  of  plants  that  are 
 putting  on  leaves  now  if  they  have 
 colorful  leaves  they'll  be  their  most 
 colorful  in  early  spring  many  like  to 
 worry  about  color  combinations  and  some 
 entire  Gardens  are  designed  on  specific 
 color  combinations  you  know  I  think 
 color  combinations  are  pretty  personal 
 you  could  put  every  garish  color 
 together  and  come  up  with  a  pretty 
 spectacular  look  all  of  it  is  personal 
 taste  in  my  opinion  and  all  valid 
 Personal  Taste  the  way  the  results  are 
 the  most  spectacular  is  if  your  plants 
 are  healthy  and  if  your  blooms  are 
 profuse  and  you  see  the  real  beauty  of 
 the  flower  so  whatever  color  combination 
 you  prefer  the  real  key  is  healthy  soil 
 that's  what  we're  all  about  is  healthy 
 soil  let's  build  soil  with  lots  of 
 beneficial  life  so  if  you  like  the  video 
 please  like  it  and  comment  and  subscribe 
 we're  on  our  way  to  50,000  subscribers 
 and  we  need  more  views  so  tell  everyone 
 you  know  if  you  think  it's  a  worthy  view 
 for  um  gardeners  and  potential  gardeners

---

 if  your  goal  is  to  plant  climbing  roses 
 then  you  need  to  be  aware  they  won't 
 grab  on  to  a  fence  in  order  to  make  them 
 successful  on  this  block  wall  we  put  a 
 very  simple  trellis  that  anyone  can 
 build  we  will  talk  to  you  about  which 
 roses  we  picked  and  how  we  built  the 
 trellis  these  are  16  ft  long  5  ft  tall 
 heavy  gauge  welded  wire  in  4x4  squares 
 we  found  that  stores  like  Home  Depot  and 
 Lowe's  have  something  similar  but 
 they're  not  as  heavy  a  gauge  a  wire  and 
 we  like  this  heavy  gauge  cuz  it  gives  a 
 a  little  bit  of  support  to  the  fence  and 
 it's  strong  and  these  roses  over  time 
 get  heavy  yeah  you  can  use  thinner  uh 
 wire  um  I'm  not  really  impressed  with 
 the  finished  effect  it  tends  to  not  be 
 as  rigid  and  uh  it  might  waffle  or  I'm 
 not  sure  what  the  right  word  is  but  it's 
 not  straight  these  are  16  foot  lengths 
 if  you  want  you  can  cut  them  into 
 whatever  size  you  need  this  is  252  ft  if 
 you  use  any  other  products  it's  more 
 expensive  if  you  build  a  wood  trellis 
 it's  way  more  expensive  so  this  is 
 simple  easy  to  construct  you  know  when 
 you  first  plant  the  Roses  you  see  the 
 trellis  more  than  anything  we  painted  it 
 a  nondescript  color  that  makes  it  not 
 real  noticeable  and  we  used  the  Benjamin 
 Mo  color  dragon's  breath  you  should 
 hardly  notice  the  wire  and  eventually 
 the  Roses  will  touch  each  other  and  you 
 won't  see  the  wire  wire  at  all  the  way 
 we  attached  it  is  really  very  simple  we 
 used  we  drilled  holes  in  the  block  wall 
 and  we  used  this  simple  what  I  call  EY 
 hooks  um  I  think  maybe  that's  what 
 they're  called  and  we  painted  them 
 dragon's  breath  also  and  we  used  enough 
 to  support  these  16t  long 
 pieces  we  put  them  in  about  every  8  ft 
 and  that's  the  trellis  and  about  as 
 simple  a  trellis  as  I  can 
 imagine  you  want  to  plant  them  as  close 
 to  the  wire  as  you  can  get  I  would 
 prefer  that  these  closer  but  the  reason 
 they're  not  and  many  times  they're  not 
 on  a  block  wall  is  there's  a  footing  and 
 the  footing  is  solid  concrete  and  so  you 
 can't  get  any  closer  unless  you  want  to 
 damage  the  footing  which  we  don't  want 
 to  do  these  were  planted  right  up  next 
 to  the  footing  and  then  we  tilt  them  a 
 little  over  time  you  won't  even  notice 
 the  space  because  the  trunks  will  get 
 much  bigger  you  don't  have  to  go  out 
 there  every  day  and  help  them  twist 
 around  it  but  you  have  to  get  them 
 started  so  they'll  latch  onto  that  wire 
 and  then  they  on  their  own  they'll  start 
 to  grab  it  and  grow  and  I  like  to  use 
 green  Horticultural  tape  we'll  just  tie 
 the  rose  tendrils  to  the  wire  we're  also 
 going  to  take  off  all  the  stakes  and 
 then  we'll  attach  the  ones  that  are  big 
 enough  some  aren't  big  enough  but  the 
 ones  that  are  big  enough  we'll  attach 
 them  to  the 
 wire  these  Rose  varieties  were  selected 
 for  their  color  their  size  their 
 Vitality  their  adaptivity  to  our  climate 
 very  hot  summers  there's  six  of  them  Don 
 Juan  Joseph's  coat  pretty  and  pink 
 golden  opportunity  zephrine  druhan  and 
 lavender  Crush  you  might  get  the  idea 
 that  those  are  all  very  different  colors 
 so  what  they're  after  is  this  kind  of  um 
 I  might  call  an  orgasmic  mix  of  color 
 really  spectacular  they  have  low  roses 
 in  the  foreground  and  then  they  have 
 these  big  roses  all  up  against  the  back 
 and  really  Vivid  bright  colors  you  know 
 it's  going  to  look  fantastic  there's  one 
 different  variety  next  to  each  other  six 
 times  and  then  we  start  the  six  over 
 again  there's  quite  a  variation  in 
 climbing  row  sizes  so  when  you  select 
 the  rows  some  don't  get  that  big  some 
 don't  spread  that  much  some  of  these 
 spread  more  we  kind  of  like  the  idea  of 
 them  growing  together  and  mixing 
 together  so  we're  not  worried  about  it 
 but  there's  no  hard  and  fast  rule  they 
 have  to  be  spaced  10  ft  that's  just  what 
 we  came  up  with  here  because  they  really 
 wanted  to  use  six  different  roses  four 
 times  and  so  they  had  252  fet  so  the  10 
 ft  spacing  came  out  of  that  if  you  look 
 up  the  Roses  it'll  give  you  their  what 
 they  like  in  terms  of  climate  and  also 
 um  how  big  they  get  how  tall  and  wide 
 they  get  areas  of  the  country  they  do 
 well  in  so  you'll  be  considering  all 
 those  things  and  then  the  color 
 obviously  is  a  big  consideration  with 
 climbing  roses  the  other  thing  to  be 
 aware  of  is  uh  sometimes  you  go  online 
 or  look  in  a  book  and  you  find  these 
 climbing  roses  that  you  love  but  you 
 can't  find  them  anyone  that  grows  them 
 so  if  you're  thinking  you  know  where 
 you're  going  to  buy  them  you  might  check 
 with  what's  available  in  this  case  the 
 owner  became  convinced  she  wanted  that 
 lavender  Crush  I  could  not  find  it 
 locally  so  one  of  the  neat  things  about 
 buying  plants  these  days  is  you  can  go 
 online  and  find  lavender  Crush  so  it 
 came  from  another  state  but  I  was  able 
 to  find  lavender  Crush  all  the  other 
 roses  I  bought  at  local  nurseries  here 
 in  Fresno 
 for  climbing  roses  you  don't  do  a  lot  of 
 pruning  because  it's  almost  impossible 
 to  prune  them  once  they  get  intertwined 
 in  the  wire  but  you  can  prune  for  width 
 and  so  you  might  want  to  come  and  prune 
 it  to  keep  encouraging  it  to  stay  flat 
 and  then  if  you  wanted  to  you  don't  have 
 to  but  you  can  prune  off  old  blooms 
 which  is  a  lot  of  work  you  probably  do 
 increase  future  blooms  if  you  prune  off 
 dying  blooms  but  that's  difficult  to  do 
 on  250 
 long  area  of  climbing 
 roses  the  way  we're  going  to  get  these 
 to  perform  like  crazy  is  with  our  blend 
 about  3  cups  when  we  plant  and  then 
 we're  going  to  spray  over  the  blend  in 
 what  we  think  is  the  root  Zone  with 
 penetrate  liquid  bio  Tiller  that  is 
 spectacular  for  roses  and  then  every 
 year  add  that  same  blend  and  penetrate 
 liquid  bioer  and  by  doing  that  you'll 
 encourage  a  massive  Bloom  and  a  really 
 healthy  climbing  Road  R  I'd  say  about  3 
 years  the  wall  will  mostly  be  covered  in 
 about  3  years  you'll  see  much  more 
 climbing  rows  than  wire  so  I  hoped  you 
 liked  our  video  on  climbing  roses  please 
 like  it  if  you  found  it  helpful  in  any 
 way  and  also  subscribe  and  help  us  get 
 more  subscribers  and  more  viewers

---

 do  I  still  have  to  fertilize  if  I'm 
 using  your  products  and  the  answer  is  no 
 our  products  are  a  comprehensive 
 approach  to  feeding  your  plants  and  your 
 soil  that  satisfies  the  need  to  do 
 fertilizer  in  Spring  that's  what  this 
 video  is  all  about  how  to  use  our 
 products  in 
 spring  so  our  video  today  has  chapters 
 just  like  a  good  book  and  you  can  skip 
 to  different  chapters  depending  on 
 exactly  why  you're  watching  this  video 
 or  you  can  watch  them  all  which  I  would 
 do  if  I  were  you  cuz  they're  all  really 
 interesting  and  helpful  I'm  John 
 Valentino  president  of  Johan  and  Bob's 
 Corporation  and  Chip  Valentino  is  out  to 
 a  lunch  date  he'll  return  on  our  next 
 video  the  one  product  we  have  that  is 
 for  all  Lawns  because  it  has  macro 
 nutrients  nourished  biosol  which  you 
 would  put  on  at  about  6  to  10  lb  per 
 th000  square  ft  and  it  will  address 
 feeding  the  lawn  feeding  the  soil  in  a 
 way  that  can  prevent  fungal  disease  and 
 in  a  way  that  can  give  you  a  beautiful 
 deep  Green  Spring  is  definitely  the 
 first  time  to  use  nourished  biosol  you 
 wouldn't  necessarily  want  to  go  just  by 
 Spring  but  a  combination  of  Springtime 
 and  relatively  warm  atmospheric 
 temperatures  and  relatively  warm  soil 
 temperatures  like  50  55°  on  the  soil  70° 
 and  more  as  the  highs  on  the  lawn  your 
 subsequent  applications  would  depend  on 
 how  green  you  want  to  keep  it  if  you 
 want  the  greenest  lawn  in  your 
 neighborhood  you  might  have  to  make 
 applications  like  that  every  6  to  8 
 weeks  on  our  label  information  we  say 
 twice  a  year  so  I  would  do  it  sometime 
 around  the  beginning  of  Spring  and  then 
 again  maybe  the  beginning  of  Summer 
 that's  kind  of  the  fundamental  product 
 that  you  would  use  on  all  Lawns  now  if 
 you  happen  to  have  problems  with  your 
 soil  like  drainage  fungal  disease  pests 
 then  we  might  want  to  encourage  a  faster 
 building  of  beneficial  life  and  use  more 
 of  our  products  so  then  we  would 
 consider  optimize  in  the  winter  and 
 nourish  biosol  in  the  spring  and  summer 
 and  then  also  spraying  over  the  nourish 
 biosol  with  penetrate  liquid  bio  tillers 
 or  you  might  want  to  use  blend  if  you 
 have  these  problems  now  blend  is  the 
 three  products  together  and  because 
 you're  using  three  products  it  is  the 
 most  expensive  of  the  treatments  it's  an 
 excellent  treatment  for  your  lawn  but  if 
 you  have  25,000  square  feet  that  can  be 
 a  very  expensive  treatment  so  then  I 
 would  look  at  using  optimize 
 individually  at  the  opportune  time  using 
 nourish  biosol  by  itself  at  the 
 opportune  time  probably  an  application 
 or  two  of  penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller 
 you  have  a  choice  you  can  either  do  a 
 heavy  application  right  at  planting  I 
 would  use  blend  and  use  a  good  rate  of 
 application  so  as  much  as  a  cup  or  two 
 say  for  tomato  plants  usually  that  will 
 suffice  for  the  entire  year  if  you 
 wanted  to  do  more  like  a  half  a  cup  to  a 
 cup  you  could  then  do  another  appli 
 appliation  in  a  in  a  month  and  a  half  or 
 2  months  but  I  usually  do  just  one 
 application  for  vegetable  crops  that 
 only  last  three  or  4  months  on  fruit 
 trees  and  crops  that  stay  in  the  ground 
 maybe  like  certain  Berry  crops  then  you 
 would  apply  more  than  once  apply  in  the 
 spring  and  then  again  about  mid  to  late 
 summer  and  that  falls  in  line  with  our 
 label  recommendations  of  twice  a  year 
 some  people  use  it  and  get  such  a 
 fabulous  response  they  ask  me  well  can  I 
 put  it  on  once  a  month  and  you  can  put 
 it  on  once  a  month  and  it's  almost 
 impossible  to  overuse  it  what  we're 
 trying  to  do  with  our  recommendations  of 
 rate  is  give  you  the  most  value  for  your 
 money  spring  is  the  best  time  to  start 
 this  process  of  building  the  soil  in 
 terms  of  an  anti-  pest  regimen  up  to  70% 
 of  pests  start  in  the  soil  one  of  the 
 real  good  strategies  is  if  you  build 
 life  in  the  soil  that  those  pests  will 
 be  eradicated 
 before  they  become  pests  while  they're 
 still  in  the  soil  beneficial  microbes 
 eat  the  beginning  forms  of  pests  so  we 
 did  a  video  about  pests  you  can  check 
 that  video  out  right  here  which  gives 
 you  all  kinds  of  organic  products  you 
 can  use  and  it'll  encourage  you  to  apply 
 most  of  those  products  right  now  in 
 early  spring  but  if  we  then  have  some 
 problems  with  pests  and  disease  then  we 
 would  use  for  fungal  problems  citrol 
 blast  in  viral  repel  40  for  pests  for 
 Roses  which  tend  to  have  sometimes  both 
 fungal  disease  and  pests  we  have  a 
 product  called  Rose  and  soil  Defender 
 and  that  can  really  be  used  on  anything 
 but  we  called  it  Rose  and  soil  Defender 
 cuz  it's  particularly  effective  on  roses 
 most  likely  I  wouldn't  apply  them  in  the 
 spring  unless  I  saw  a  problem  and 
 usually  in  Spring  there's  not  a  lot  of 
 pest  and  disease  problems  those  develop 
 as  we  get  into  warmer  weather 
 I  would  only  use  them  in  the  spring  if  I 
 see  an  issue  they're  more  after  the  fact 
 type  products  and  before  the  fact  we're 
 using  penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller  we're 
 using  blend  if  you  want  to  maximize 
 Bloom  and  maximize  health  of  flowers  use 
 blend  right  around  now  the  other  thing  I 
 like  to  apply  is  penetrate  liquid  bioer 
 either  over  the  top  of  Blend  or  a  week 
 or  two  after  the  blend  so  a  tremendous 
 treatment  for  roses  and  we've  tried  this 
 in  different  r  Rose  clubs  we've  gotten 
 the  best  results  with  about  three  cups 
 of  blend  over  the  root  zone  of  the  Rose 
 and  then  spray  over  that  with  penetrate 
 liquid  bio  tiller  and  you  can  add  to 
 that  if  you  continue  to  have  any  kind  of 
 pester  disease  is  you  do  the  blend  and 
 then  do  about  an  inch  and  a  half  to  two 
 inches  of  earthworm  castings  over  the 
 blend  that  combination  feeds  the  Roose 
 but  also  does  it  in  a  way  that  limits 
 things  like  aphid  and  white  fly  and  all 
 kinds  of  other  pests  my  favorite 
 treatment  for  trees  is  blend  right  over 
 the  root  zone  so  the  root  zone  is  all 
 the  way  out  to  the  edges  of  the  canopy 
 it's  hard  to  say  how  much  you'd  use  it 
 depends  on  the  size  of  the  tree  if 
 you're  having  any  kinds  of  problems  with 
 a  tree  at  all  then  I  would  usually  spray 
 over  that  with  penetrate  liquid  bio 
 tiller  if  everything's  going  great  just 
 the  blend  is  a  good  way  to  fertilize 
 trees  if  you  have  a  tree  that  tends  to 
 get  aphid  or  white  fly  use  the  blend  and 
 then  over  the  blend  as  a  mulch  we  use 
 about  inch  and  a  half  to  2  in  of 
 earthworm  castings  and  then  you  can 
 spray  right  over  that  with  penetrate 
 liquid  bio  tiller  does  a  fantastic  job 
 with  problematic  soils  and  those  could 
 be  a  range  of  things  they  can  be  clay 
 they  can  be  kichi  they  can  be  Sandy  all 
 of  them  will  be  improved  by  the  same 
 effort  and  that  is  to  build  life  in  the 
 soil  now  it  doesn't  mean  that  you  will 
 turn  sandy  soil  into  LOM  soil  just  by 
 using  products  like  like  ours  but  you 
 can  make  sandy  soil  retain  moisture  much 
 better  and  retain  nutrients  much  better 
 and  be  a  much  better  medium  for  growing 
 plants  same  with  Clay  we  can  change  clay 
 to  something  that  allows  water  to 
 penetrate  and  go  through  it  a  medium 
 that's  more  workable  if  your  soil  is 
 particularly  terrible  we  might  recommend 
 more  than  twice  a  year  applications  if 
 you  want  to  speed  up  the  progress  in 
 reclaiming  it  and  improving  it  but  we 
 would  definitely  recommend  that  twice 
 per  year  and  then  see  how  things  go  and 
 see  what  kind  of  improvements  you  see 
 usually  in  the  first  3  to  6  months  you 
 see  quite  a  bit  of  improvement  and  that 
 might  encourage  you  to  add  an  additional 
 treatment  during  the  year  early  spring 
 Midsummer  late  summer  early  fall  an 
 excellent  thing  to  do  if  you're  just  a 
 little  confused  by  all  of  this  is  apply 
 blend  it's  good  for  everything  and  if 
 you  really  want  to  give  it  an  extra 
 charge  of  goodness  then  you  apply  blend 
 and  you  spray  over  the  top  of  the  blend 
 with  penetrate  liquid  bioer  that's  a  way 
 to  make  all  soils  as  healthy  as  possible 
 if  the  size  of  your  garden  is  such  that 
 that's  prohibitive  then  we'd  look  at 
 optimize  and  optimize  would  eventually 
 get  you  to  the  same  place  but  it'll  take 
 longer  that's  the  one  product  that  you 
 can  apply  before  spring  and  allow  rain 
 and  moisture  to  start  to  break  it  down 
 and  it  breaks  down  very  slowly  I'd  start 
 with  optimize  and  then  see  how  things  do 
 and  maybe  use  some  penetrate  liquid 
 bioer  here  and  there  maybe  spot  with 
 nourish  biosol  so  this  product  line  is 
 actually  extremely  simple  but  it  doesn't 
 always  seem  like  it  unfortunately  if 
 you're  using  this  product  line  you  don't 
 have  to  obsess  over  any  of  it  it's 
 really  very  easy  to  use  you  can't  do  any 
 damage  it's  tremendously  effective  no 
 matter  in  what  order  you  use  them  but 
 feel  free  to  ask  me  about  my  opinion  of 
 the  absolute  best  way  that'll  maximize 
 your  value  if  you  have  a  question  put  it 
 in  the  comments  if  you  like  this  video 
 please  like  it  and  subscribe  help  us  get 
 to  50,000  subscribers  and  we  thank  you 
 for  watching

---

 chip  and  I  are  here  at  this  water 
 efficient  Zer  Escape  Garden  which  we 
 installed  finishing  it  about  a  year  and 
 a  half  ago  the  owner  had  a  big  hand  in 
 the  design  of  it  and  it's  an  interesting 
 yard  we're  going  to  look  at  the  progress 
 look  at  the  things  that  are  working  and 
 the  things  that  need  some  help  and  we're 
 going  to  start  right  here  at  the 
 entrance  we  used  the  series  of  poured  in 
 place  big  concrete  stepping  stones  and 
 to  break  up  that  arid  bunch  of  concrete 
 we  planted  kopy  in  the  middle  which  is 
 done  very  well  tough  easy  to  grow  and 
 they  trim  it  every  now  and  then  and  so 
 it  stays  just  a  little  higher  than  the 
 level  of  the  concrete  and  then  the  whole 
 theme  of  this  is  to  have  these  olives 
 kind  of  like  an  overhead  and  these  are 
 fruitless  olives  and  they've  put  on  a 
 lot  of  growth  since  we  planted  them  I 
 had  thinned  them  when  we  first  planted 
 them  if  you're  interested  tune  in  to 
 another  video  I'm  going  to  show  how  to 
 properly  prune  these  so  that  we  can 
 create  kind  of  a  canopy  that  you  walk 
 under  and  also  make  it  so  that  you  can 
 see  through  these  I  think  that'd  be  a 
 lot  more  effective  at  the  entrance 
 rather  than  having  a  Big  Blob  of  green 
 will  make  it  so  you  can  see  the 
 structure  of  the  fruitless  Olive  if 
 you'd  like  to  see  the  first  video  that 
 right  after  we  installed  it  click  in  the 
 upper  right  hand  corner  and  you  can 
 watch  that  chip  is  armed  tonight  with 
 his  GoPro  camera  so  he'll  be  doing  some 
 of  the  photography  to  help  Brendan  out 
 together  they're  a  tremendous  team 
 you'll  see  some  of  the  best  Photography 
 in  the  industry  if  you  watch  this  this 
 video  I'm  John  Valentino  president  of 
 Jonah  Bob's  Corporation  and  also 
 president  of  truckl  and  Valentino 
 landscape  development  Inc  I've  had  a 
 contractor's  license  since 
 1976  so  I'm  getting  close  to  50  years  of 
 building  Gardens  and  building  commercial 
 Landscapes  a  lot  of  the  things  along  the 
 entrance  this  is  not  a  great  time  of  the 
 year  for  them  all  of  the  Salvia  is  just 
 kind  of  hanging  in  there  when  we  had 
 cold  weather  it'll  start  blooming  in 
 another  month  or  so  this  Sedum  I  can  see 
 just  DED  back  basically  and  you  can  see 
 it's  just  starting  to  come  up  that 
 basically  dies  even  in  Fresno  dies  back 
 to  almost  nothing  in  the  winter  you 
 might  remember  from  the  first  video  we 
 planted  a  Japanese  grass  in  the  hopes 
 that  we  could  get  it  enough  shade  to  do 
 well  and  uh  our  hopes  were  dashed  uh  we 
 were  not  able  to  get  it  enough  shade  to 
 do  well  so  we  replaced  it  with  this 
 Della  the 
 Della  is  uh  doing  very  well  it'll  take  a 
 lot  of  sign  and  it'll  take  quite  a  bit 
 of  shade  and  it  gets  a  little  bit  of 
 shade  here  and  then  we've  got  some 
 different  kinds  of  Nandina  everything's 
 doing  well  in  this  Cobble  this  kopia  was 
 all  a  Bermuda  lawn  and  so  we  had  the 
 challenge  of  making  sure  all  the  Bermuda 
 was  gone  and  this  has  done  very  well  I 
 kept  inspecting  it  for  invasion  of 
 Bermuda  and  we  haven't  had  any  the  other 
 thing  that's  really  impressed  me  about 
 this  stand  of  kopia  is  in  Fresno  it 
 tends  to  sometimes  get  a  little  more  off 
 color  than  this  in  the  winter  it  stays 
 green  but  sometimes  not  this  green  since 
 we've  installed  it  I  have  been  looking 
 at  it  uh  once  a  month  or  once  every 
 other  month  and  it's  really  impressed  me 
 the  color  and  the  the  beauty  of  it  as 
 soon  as  we  get  a  little  warmer  weather 
 it'll  green  up  the  other  interesting 
 thing  that  I  give  the  owner  a  lot  of 
 credit  for  is  her  idea  to  do  these  bands 
 of  rock  around  the  kopia  on  both  sides 
 and  her  idea  was  to  try  to  create 
 movement  or  MO 
 I  was  a  little  unsure  it  would  be 
 successful  but  it  it  really  is 
 successful  just  2  or  3  in  of  compacted 
 California  gold  I  think  we  used 
 decomposed  Granite  first  and  then  we 
 compacted  California  gold  into  it  so 
 it's  firm  on  the  edging  since  we  had  a 
 lot  of  Curves  we  used  product  called 
 permalock  very  nice  edging  and  good  for 
 homeowners  to  install  and  a  lot  of 
 edging  that  you  can  find  at  places  like 
 Home  Depot  and  stuff  isn't  good  when  you 
 have  freezing  and  hot  weather  you'll  see 
 heave  and  move  and  this  edging  stays  put 
 as  you  can  see  it's  stayed  you  know  it's 
 right  in  the  same  grade  is  when  we 
 installed  it  you  can  see  we've  got  it  on 
 both  sides  so  on  the  copia  side  you  can 
 Edge  it  like  with  a  string  trimmer  or 
 something  and  then  on  this  side  it  just 
 makes  a  nice  separation  then  on  the 
 other  side  of  this  edging  we  Ed  little 
 oy  I  had  in  mind  them  being  maintained  a 
 little  taller  you  know  little  OE  which 
 is  a  dwarf  Olive  with  no  olives  we'll 
 get  four  five  6t  tall  and  I  was 
 envisioning  it  being  allowed  to  grow  4T 
 or  so  so  that  it  would  screen  the 
 vegetable  garden  they  can  be  maintained 
 at  a  higher  height  and  also  allowed  to 
 spread  more  and  they  would  touch  each 
 other  and  I  think  that  would  be  a  nice 
 way  to  handle  the  screening  of  the 
 vegetable  garden  everything's  really 
 doing  well  you  can  see  the  rapalus  up 
 against  the  house  dianella  hiding  the 
 valves  and  then  those  Citrus  back  there 
 have  probably  tripled  inside  in  just  a 
 year  and  a  half  so  they're  doing  very 
 well  russelia  St  Elmo's  Fire  is  doing 
 very  well  they  look  a  little  half 
 dormant  now  because  they  do  get  half 
 dormant  when  you  have  cold  weather  the 
 owner  was  saying  the  yard  is  a  lot  more 
 Lush  and  attractive  in  the  about  April 
 right  now  we're  at  the  very  beginning  of 
 March  but  we  can  still  see  a  lot  of 
 growth  here  and  progress  and  we  can 
 compare  it  to  that  original  and  then 
 maybe  we'll  show  it  to  you  again  a 
 little  later  on  when  I  prune  these 
 olives  when  it's  first  planted  even  a 
 zeroscape  or  water  efficient  Garden  they 
 have  to  Branch  out  into  the  soil  The 
 Roots  do  so  it's  difficult  to  go 
 immediately  into  water  conserving  mode 
 you  do  much  more  frequent  waterings 
 although  it  doesn't  have  to  be  real  deep 
 watering  to  just  make  sure  everything 
 survives  takes  off  and  begins  to  root 
 down  now  we're  into  the  second  year  and 
 we  can  start  watering  less  frequently 
 and  more  deeply  to  try  to  encourage  deep 
 rooting  which  would  allow  us  to  not  have 
 to  water  as  much  if  our  soil  has  all 
 kinds  of  microbiology  in  it  that's  a 
 part  of  being  able  to  water  less  and  so 
 what  we  do  is  when  we  plant  we  use  a  lot 
 of  our  blend  which  is  optimized 
 maximized  nourish  biosol  and  we  use  a 
 lot  of  our  penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller 
 which  is  a  sprayon  product  the 
 combination  starts  microbiological 
 growth  which  is  important  for  the 
 General  Health  of  plants  also  important 
 for  Gardens  that  you  want  to  be  able  to 
 use  water  as  efficiently  as  possible  so 
 I  like  to  do  ongoing  applications  of  our 
 products  to  continue  to  build  life  in 
 the  soil  I  might  do  a  couple  uh 
 applications  of  penetrate  liquid  bio 
 tiller  through  the  year  especially  well 
 like  in  the  vegetable  garden  I  would 
 definitely  do  blend  and  penetrate  liquid 
 bio  tiller  we've  got  potting  soil  there 
 that  can  get  depleted  but  not  if  you  use 
 blend  and  penetrate  liquid  bioer  so 
 that's  kind  of  a  little  trick  to  not 
 have  to  change  potting  soil  so  these 
 trees  have  interesting  staking  this  is  a 
 Keith  Davy  pistach  it's  developing 
 tinsil  strength  because  you  can  tell  how 
 that  it's  wider  at  the  bottom  than  as  it 
 goes  up  we  had  to  use  quite  a  few  Stakes 
 because  they  tend  to  be  gangly  and 
 spindly  when  they're  out  of  the 
 container  and  if  you  don't  stake  them 
 like  this  they'll  start  to  get  crooked 
 and  so  we  use  the  double  steak  and  then 
 we  use  this  support  steak  right  about 
 now  this  support  steak  can  come  out 
 because  we  want  to  encourage  as  much 
 movement  as  we  can  get  that's  what 
 allows  trees  to  develop  strength  in  the 
 trunk  and  make  it  so  you  can  take  off 
 all  the  steaks  probably  within  a  couple 
 of  years  of  planting  so  if  you  take  this 
 support  steak  off  now  and  then  retie 
 these  you'll  get  a  little  more  movement 
 when  the  wind  blows  especially  once  we 
 have  leaves  on  this  and  then  the  next 
 year  you  can  take  these  Stakes  off  and 
 you've  got  these  nice  straight  strong 
 trees  the  southern  Live  Oak  it  may  have 
 had  such  a  strong  trunk  that  we  didn't 
 need  to  stake  it  and  it's  better  if  you 
 don't  need  to  stake  the  tree  it's  it's 
 much  healthier  for  the  tree  and  so  this 
 is  really  looking  good  very  wide  at  the 
 bottom  a  multi  like  these  fruitless 
 olives  obviously  you  don't  need  staking 
 multis  don't  usually  need  staking  the 
 crep  Myrtle  multi  you  don't  need  staking 
 because  they  don't  have  a  tall  thin 
 trunk  with  a  bunch  of  weight  on  top  that 
 makes  it  you  know  hard  to  stabilize 
 so  in  the  courtyard  we  have  red  Japanese 
 Maple  in  the  corner  an  interesting  Smoke 
 Tree  my  Smoke  Tree  at  home  is  a  little 
 farther  along  I  I  think  just  because  of 
 the  exposure  here  maybe  we  can  look  on 
 the  video  to  see  what  kind  I  I  remember 
 this  is  some  unusual  kind  of  red  bud  but 
 I  can't  remember  which  one  and  you  can 
 see  the  kopia  really  looks  great  in  here 
 you  could  put  a  nice  table  out  here  we 
 have  a  lot  of  concrete  but  it  doesn't 
 look  Aid  we  just  have  a  little  dripped 
 line  you  know  with  the  emitters  built 
 into  into  the  drift  line  watering  the 
 kopia  some  beautiful  uh  Nandina  blush 
 pink  variegated  lopy  so  you  can  call  it 
 status  or  you  can  call  it  sea  lavender 
 or  lemoni  and  you  can  see  there's  quite 
 a  bit  here  and  it's  blooming  now  it's 
 looking  great  right  now  caving  measure 
 is  to  Plum  for  a  fountain  and  then  put 
 the  fountain  in  later  the  owners  put 
 their  own  fountain  in  after  the  garden 
 was  complete  so  as  you  can  see  a 
 zeroscape  garden  doesn't  have  to  look 
 dry  or  Aid  we  tried  to  create  something 
 that's  even  a  little  bit  Lush  attractive 
 and  very  low  water  using  if  you  like 
 this  type  of  video  where  we  go  and  look 
 back  at  Gardens  that  we  showed  you  the 
 original  installations  let  us  know  we'll 
 start  doing  more  of  those  and  let  us 
 know  how  Chip's  photography  was  look 
 he's  pacing  around  right  now  getting 
 every  little  nook  and  cranny  of  this  uh 
 water  efficient  Garden  if  you  find  this 
 useful  please  like  And  subscribe  we'd 
 like  to  build  up  our  viewership  and  our 
 subscribers 
 headed  for  50,000  help  us  get  there

---

 Sherry  I  think  you  told  me  but  I  forgot 
 what  do  you  call  this  it's  a  blood 
 orange  tart  has  a  graham  cracker  crust 
 and  a  brown  sugar  mering  top  on 
 it  chip  and  I  are  here  at  Sherry's 
 backyard  we  came  to  taste  that  fabulous 
 tart  that  she  invented  we're  going  to 
 talk  a  little  bit  about  the  blood 
 oranges  she  used  and  a  little  bit  about 
 gardening  and  John  and  Bob's  products  if 
 you'd  like  to  watch  our  latest  video 
 about  how  this  Garden  was  turned  into 
 more  of  an  Edible  Garden  you  can  click 
 the  link  in  the  top  right  hand  corner  to 
 watch  it  so  how  long  does  it  take  to 
 make  you  know  it  doesn't  take  that  long 
 but  it  is  it's  a  complicated  recipe  I 
 should  have  made  the  courage  yesterday 
 because  it  takes  a  really  long  time  to 
 really  set  up  this  one  I  did  not  do  it 
 last  night  so  it's  having  a  little 
 trouble  setting  so  it's  going  to  be  a 
 little  runny  but  it'll  taste  good  so  we 
 could  rename  it  runny  blood  orange  tart 
 there  you  go  you  told  me  you  made  it 
 many  years  ago  and  won  an  award  I  did  at 
 byly  Gardens  we  invented  this  recipe 
 well  you  made  the  recipe  that's  isn't 
 that  hard  to  do  no  I  like  making  up 
 recipes  and  sometimes  they  work  John  and 
 sometimes  so  how  many  blood  oranges  did 
 you  use  three  and  a  lemon  one  and  a  half 
 lemons  wow  so  there's  one  and  a  half 
 lemons  and  three  blood  oranges  so  this 
 year  you  had  to  buy  the  blood  oranges 
 but  next  year  you'll  be  able  to  use  your 
 own  I  hope  so  yeah  well  three  I  think  we 
 can  do  three  I'm  hoping  I  get  like  three 
 of  everything  yeah  just  so  I  can  taste 
 it  that'd  be  perfect  you  know  we  didn't 
 plant  a  lemon  though  right  no  yeah  so 
 you  which  I'm  happy  about  because  you 
 have  to  buy  the  lemon  no  I  don't  because 
 down  the  street  somebody's  lemon  bush  is 
 hanging  over  the  fence  in  an  empty  lot 
 oh  and  that's  where  I  get  my  lemons 
 that's  very  resourceful  and  I  also  get 
 my  grapefruit 
 there  are  we  ready  to  try 
 [Music] 
 it  the  crust  is 
 Good  Very  flavors  are  actually  really 
 good  I  got  the  part  I  like  is  where  you 
 can  get  the  color  of  the  blood  orange 
 this  is  very  good  yeah  yeah  I  like  it 
 just  like  a  citrus  in  general  you  know 
 you  might  have  a  frost  problem  but  other 
 than  that  blood  oranges  are  like  growing 
 oranges  they're  not  more  pernickety  than 
 a  regular  old  naval  orange  no  why  don't 
 more  people  have  them  on  their  yards  I 
 think  a  lot  of  people  don't  like  blood 
 oranges  which  is  hard  to  Fathom  but  uh  I 
 think  a  lot  of  people  don't  like  blood 
 oranges  you  know  I  grow  a  lot  of 
 different  kinds  of  citrus  I  but  mostly  I 
 just  eat  it  fresh  I  don't  think  I  do 
 anything  creative  with  it  I  Define  a 
 good  mandarin  orange  as  one  that's  easy 
 to  peel  and  no  seeds  and  so  that's  what 
 we  try  to  grow  oh  John  I  have  a  question 
 for  you  on  that  you  know  when  you're 
 driving  down  the  street  you  see  these 
 oranges  and  they  have  these  tarps  over 
 them  big  long  plastic  sheets  is  that  to 
 keep  the  pollinators  out  of  there  so 
 they  don't  have  seeds  exactly  okay  I  was 
 right  that  is  and  so  even  some  of  these 
 seedless  varieties  end  up  with  seeds 
 because  not  every  because  that's  an 
 expensive  process  and  so  not  everybody 
 does  that  and  then  if  you  end  up  with 
 seeds  the  marketability  is  much  less 
 well  mine  are  going  to  end  up  with  seeds 
 cuz  I'm  not  going  to  cover  them  like 
 that  well  I  don't  cover  mine  and  I  don't 
 get  seeds  so  it's  not  a  guarantee  that 
 you'll  get 
 seeds  have  a  little  I  have  more  and  I'm 
 going  to  do  this  for  me  I'm  trying  to 
 trying  to  get  the  blood  orange  part  yeah 
 I'm  trying  to  get  you  a  decent  chunk  of 
 blood 
 orange  what  temperature  can  the  you  know 
 at  night  the  temperature  gets  down  to  38 
 I've  figured  that's  fine  oh  yeah  so  I 
 figured  it's  good  till  about  30  is  that 
 about  right  no  30  is  no  problem  and  what 
 you're  talking  about  only  is  damaging 
 the  crop  you're  not  talking  about 
 damaging  the  trees  at  30  or  even  28  in 
 the  26  24  to  28  range  then  you  could 
 have  some  damage  to  the  Citrus  the  crop 
 to  the  crop  okay  so  I  can  go  down  to  28 
 29  and  not  have  to  29  is  not  a  problem 
 some  of  that  depends  on  how  mature  they 
 are  as  you  as  you  get  more  sugar  in  it 
 it's  more  resistant  to  cold  temperatures 
 so  if  it's  if  this  cold  temperature 
 happens  January  15th 
 then  you  can  go  down  to  probably  24  but 
 if  it  happens  December  1  then  you  know 
 you're  probably  around  25  26  to  kill  the 
 tree  we'd  probably  have  to  get  down  to 
 18  or 
 something  if  you  have  uh  lots  of 
 microbiology  in  the  soil  complex 
 microbiological  life  that'll  give  you  a 
 couple  of  more  degrees  variance  there 
 it's  kind  of  like  an  antifreeze  effect 
 so  that's  why  we  use  blend  and  penetrate 
 liquid  bio  tiller  around  everything  but 
 particularly  around  Citrus  so  now  how 
 much  penetrate  would  I  put  on  each  one 
 of  those  plants  like  and  and  when  when 
 would  be  the  next  time  I  would  put 
 penetrate  on  in  early  spring  so  the 
 middle  of  March  then  how  many 
 applications  you  do  is  up  to  you  a  once 
 a  month  application  is  extremely 
 generous  I'd  start  in  the  spring  and  how 
 much  of  the  you  know  you  mix  it  m  you 
 get  the  little  bottle  you  mix  it  with 
 like  a  gallon  of  water  right  a  gallon  of 
 water  for  8  oz  of  product  you  can  put 
 that  in  a  g  G  of  water  you  could  put  it 
 in  two  gallons  of  water  it  doesn't 
 matter  how  much  water  you  use  as  long  as 
 you  get  sufficient  amount  of  product 
 wherever  you're  spraying  it  let's  say 
 you've  got  six  Citrus  six  Citrus  and 
 three  almonds  out  front  yeah  so  you 
 could  do  all  of  that  with  a  gallon  of 
 water  and  one  8  oz  and  then  I  mix  up  you 
 know  the  optimize  and  the  maximize  and 
 whatever  the  other  one  is  to  Nish  spol 
 okay  nourish  spol  and  come  up  with  Bland 
 yeah  and  then  you  could  just  buy  the 
 blend  from  us  right  already  mixed  I  like 
 to  mix  it  okay  good  I  like  mixing  it 
 myself  yeah  okay  so  the  reason  why  I 
 like  mixing  it  myself  is  I  take  and  I 
 put  them  you  know  every  once  in  a  while 
 I  say  oh  I  think  I  need  a  little  more  of 
 this  I'll  look  at  the  labels  I  go  and 
 I'll  just  squeak  in  just  a  little  bit 
 more  of  this  or  that  and  it  it's 
 actually  I  kind  of  like  doing  it's  kind 
 of  like  making  a  tart  yeah  I  kind  of 
 like  making  my  own  recipe  make  your  own 
 recipe  yeah  okay  you're  aware  of  the 
 benefit  is  then  you  can  store  those  a 
 products  indefinitely  yeah  whereas  if 
 you  buy  the  blend  you  can't  store  it 
 indefinitely  no  you've  got  just  a 
 shorter  amount  of  time  mhm  and  so  that's 
 the  other  reason  why  I've  done  it  this 
 way  I'm  thinking  for  each  tree  if  I 
 remember  the  instructions  right  on  blend 
 it  would  be  like  what  a  half  a  cup  each 
 tree  or  a  cup  or  how  much  is  no  um  I 
 like  to  do  the  tree  size  that  you  have 
 I'd  like  to  do  about  three  cups  but  if 
 you  do  that  um  you  could  probably  just 
 do  it  once  a  year  um  at  the  at  the  most 
 twice  a  year  if  you  wanted  to  do  a  cup 
 you  could  but  then  you  could  just  do  it 
 more  frequently  if  you  want  to  do  it  now 
 what's  better  once  and  do  a  big  amount 
 or  more  frequently  and  do  small  amounts 
 well  better  for  the  tree  I  don't  think 
 it  matters  what  we're  trying  to  do  is 
 make  this  a  product  that  isn't  so  much 
 work  that  people  aren't  going  to  do  it 
 so  I  would  say  we  encourage  people  just 
 every  6  months  twice  a  year  I  think 
 that's  better  from  the  standpoint  of 
 making  it  easier  for  gardeners  we're 
 trying  to  come  up  with  a  rate  that  gives 
 you  the  most  amount  of  benefit  for  the 
 least  amount  of  cost  product  okay  what  I 
 didn't  know  is  really  how  much  I  should 
 put  on  some  of  these  plants  and  I  think 
 I've  been  a  little  light  on  it  actually 
 and  then  well  there's  no  such  thing  as 
 too  much  it's  just  that  you  know  you 
 spend  more  money  but  okay  so  they  won't 
 burn  the  more  the  better  it  won't  burn 
 no  it  won't  burn  all  right  that's  and 
 that's  one  of  the  big  benefits  of  the 
 product  is  you  can't  ever  do  damage 
 whereas  you  can  with  synthetic  products 
 you  can  do  a  lot  of  damage  I  was  and 
 that  what  I  was  worried  about  you  know 
 like  with  tomatoes  for  instance  you  can 
 really  mess  up  your  Tomatoes  if  you  put 
 too  much  oh  yeah  nitrogen  on  them  or 
 anything  else  so  let  us  know  how  you 
 feel  about  the  video  If  you  enjoyed  it 
 it's  different  than  we  normally  do  and 
 also  ask  us  any  questions  you  might  have 
 about  how  to  turn  your  landscape  into  an 
 edible  one  or  any  questions  you  have 
 about  how  to  make  your  garden  or  your 
 landscape  more  useful  we  want  an 
 explosion  in  what  three  weeks  to  a  month 
 of  new  growth  and  flowers  and  that  Red 
 Bud  there  will  look  fantastic  I  called 
 it  the  grasshopper  tree  oh  because  it 
 attracts 
 Grasshoppers  and  I'm  hoping  by  moving  it 
 the  Grasshoppers  don't  love  it  you  know 
 what  one  of  my  friends  told  me  that  he 
 had  grass  hoppers  on  something  I  don't 
 remember  what  and  he  for  some  reason 
 mixed  up  our  penetrate  liquid  bioer  and 
 sprayed  the  plant  and  the  Grasshoppers 
 and  they  all  left  really  that's  what  he 
 says  I  will  try  it  we  don't  have  it  on 
 the  label  as  impacting  grasshoppers  but 
 he  claims  that  it  gets  rid  of  glass 
 grasshoppers  all  right  well  it's  worth  a 
 try  if  if  I  get  grasshoppers  again  some 
 of  the  Red  Buds  do  have  an  army  worm 
 problem  that  seems  to  be  every  year  and 
 sometimes  they're  hard  to  get  rid  of 
 probably  the  best  thing  is  to  pick  them 
 all  off  well  that's  the  best  thing  to  do 
 with  grasshoppers  too  yeah  but  you  don't 
 like  that  I  you  know  I  can  do  tomato 
 worms  grasshoppers  just  now  do  you  want 
 to  know  why  okay  all  right  why  so  so 
 when  I  was  a  kid  we  were  sitting  on  the 
 fence  my  sister  and  I  and  there  was  this 
 great  big  grasshopper  and  he  had  those 
 legs  with  the  with  theh  saw  looking  legs 
 on  them  mhm  and  my  sister  said  be 
 careful  it's  going  to  cut  off  your 
 fingers  and  I  didn't  know  that  a 
 grasshopper  couldn't  cut  off  your 
 fingers  until  I  was  in  my 
 20s  and  man  your  sister's  devious  and  I 
 and  I  still  to  this  day  look  at  a 
 grasshopper  and  go  no  maybe  not

---

 we're  here  in  Fresno  California  and  I'm 
 going  to  show  you  a  planting  of  Western 
 Red  Bud  cus  oxident  Talis  in  a  native 
 type  setting  so  one  of  our  clients  has  a 
 nice  area  below  their  house  that  is  a 
 lookout  to  the  sanim  river  and  this  area 
 has  all  native  plants  sycamores  Oaks 
 their  goal  was  to  enhance  that  native 
 planting  the  idea  was  to  add  to  the 
 native  trees  that  are  here  with  an 
 understory  large  shrub  called  Western 
 red  butter  cersa  oxid  in  Talis  we  laid 
 out  a  grouping  of  five  we  placed  them  in 
 a  natural  way  like  they  could  possibly 
 occur  in  nature  two  together  and  three  a 
 little  ways  from  that  we're  kind  of 
 picturing  them  blooming  in  the  spring 
 which  will  be  spectacular  this  is  a 
 plant  that  has  flowers  everywhere  even 
 on  the  branches  right  up  to  the  trunk 
 and  on  the  trunk  native  to  right  where 
 we  are  central  part  of  California  it 
 grows  in  Foothill  areas  and  grows  in  hot 
 dry  areas  like  ours  it's  the  type  of 
 native  plant  we  want  to  be  using  when 
 you  look  into  using  natives  natives  all 
 over  the  country  or  California  natives 
 California  represents  a  challenge 
 because  there  are  so  many  native  plants 
 and  yet  there's  a  lot  of  different 
 microclimates  in  California  so  just 
 because  it's  a  California  Native  doesn't 
 mean  it  would  thrive  in  your  area 
 without  a  lot  of  care  so  you  need  to 
 figure  out  which  part  of  California  it's 
 native  to  and  if  that's  similar  to  your 
 part  part  of  California  a  good  example 
 of  a  California  Native  that  isn't  native 
 to  similar  areas  to  our  hot  dry  Summers 
 is  the  coast  Redwood  which  occurs  in 
 moist  summer  areas  from  Santa  Cruz 
 northward  along  the  coast  where  you  get 
 Summer  fog  we  have  nothing  close  to 
 Summer  fog  and  that's  kind  of  the 
 opposite  of  why  a  lot  of  people  want  to 
 use  native  plants  they  want  something 
 low  maintenance  that's  suited  to  natural 
 elements  in  their  area  so  we  cleared  the 
 area  we  a  good  siiz  hole  and  we  added 
 our  products  which  in  this  case  was 
 blend  and  penetrate  liquid  bioer  our 
 John  and  Bob's  line  of  products  is 
 perfect  where  it's  focused  more  on 
 feeding  the  soil  and  then  the  soil  feeds 
 the  plant  rather  than  artificially 
 providing  nitrogen  phosphorus  potassium 
 in  a  way  that  can  be  harsh  and  bad  for 
 Natives  and  then  we  put  a  layer  of  mulch 
 in  a  big  circle  around  it  so  that  that 
 can  be  kept  free  of  weeds  so  there's  no 
 immediate  competition  we  think  uh  this 
 will  take  off  as  soon  as  we  get  a  little 
 bit  warmer  weather  we're  in  mid-February 
 right  now  another  month  or  so  we'll  see 
 this  start  to  bloom  Western  Red  Buds  and 
 Eastern  Red  Buds  which  are  similar  in 
 size  and  Bloom  are  all  small  deciduous 
 trees  or  large  deciduous  shrubs  so 
 there's  lots  of  appropriate  applications 
 for  them  in  gardens  we're  always  looking 
 for  small  trees  that  don't  have  damaging 
 Roots  don't  require  a  lot  of  space  can 
 shade  Western  Sun  because  Western  Sun  is 
 low  in  the  sky  lots  of  applications  for 
 Western  red  butd  in  traditional  Gardens 
 now  one  of  the  things  I  like  to  do 
 rather  than  limit  it  to  just  native 
 plants  there's  other  plants  from  other 
 parts  of  the  world  that  also  do  good  in 
 a  hot  dry  Mediterranean  climate  I  like 
 to  use  all  of  those  together  rather  than 
 saying  I'm  only  going  to  use  California 
 natives  olive  trees  and  rosemary  and  a 
 whole  host  of  other  plants  that  grow  in 
 Mediterranean  climates  which  means  they 
 don't  get  summer  water  and  many  of  them 
 are  perfectly  suited  to  our  climate  here 
 in  California  so  I  kind  of  mix 
 California  natives  for  our  area  with 
 exotic  plants  that  have  similar  uh 
 requirements  because  they  come  from 
 parts  of  the  world  with  Sim  similar 
 climates  but  if  you  say  no  no  no  no  no  I 
 want  to  limit  it  only  to  natives  that 
 can  be  done  that  just  gives  you  fewer 
 plants  to  work  with  so  one  of  the  worst 
 things  for  natives  since  you're 
 selecting  them  usually  for  their  ability 
 to  get  along  without  a  lot  of  water  one 
 of  the  worst  things  is  to  water  them  a 
 lot  especially  in  heavy  clay  like  soil 
 you  know  if  you  plant  them  near  Lawns 
 that's  usually  not  going  to  work  you 
 know  there's  a  lot  of  California  natives 
 flannel  Bush  that  are  easily  killed  by 
 overwatering  Matia  papy  fantastic 
 blooming  plant  beautiful  native  easy  to 
 kill  if  you  overwater  it  you  can  see  all 
 of  these  trees  trees  here  are  not  being 
 watered  in  the  summer  but  to  establish 
 new  plantings  in  an  area  like  Fresno 
 that  has  lots  of  100  degree  days  in  the 
 summer  the  best  way  to  do  it  is  to  be 
 able  to  provide  some  watering  the  first 
 two  years  or  so  and  that'll  get  them  off 
 to  a  really  strong  start  the  owners  had 
 water  up  by  their  house  we  brought  that 
 water  down  this  steep  hill  and  we  came 
 with  3/4  in  schedule  40  we  put  in  a 
 quick  coupler  valve  that  kind  of  acts 
 like  a  hose  but  it's  buried  so  there's 
 no  vandalism  possible  and  it  requires  a 
 key  to  get  into  it  so  you  can't  just 
 come  and  turn  on  a  faucet  and  then 
 there's  a  valve  and  a  battery  operated 
 controller  one  of  the  challenges  that  I 
 found  in  these  natural  areas  is  I  don't 
 like  to  use  drip  tubing  because  it's 
 really  subject  to  animals  eating  it  and 
 putting  holes  in  it  and  constantly 
 needing  repair  what  we  came  up  with  is 
 all  the  pipe  is  buried  and  it's  all 
 schedule  40  pipe  and  then  when  we  got  to 
 each  plant  we  put  it  on  a  regular 
 sprinkler  that  pops  up  4  in  when  it 
 comes  on  and  is  made  out  of  sturdy 
 plastic  material  so  that  it's  difficult 
 to  damage  and  it's  finished  to  grade  so 
 you  can't  kick  it  uh  it's  on  a  swing 
 joint  so  even  if  you  were  to  step  on  it 
 it  won't  break  we  just  want  to  water 
 around  the  root  zone  of  the  plant  this 
 first  year  maybe  he'll  water  once  a  week 
 or  so  so  and  get  it  off  to  a  good  start 
 if  you  liked  it  please  officially  like 
 it  and  continue  to  watch  our  videos  and 
 subscribe  to  them  if  you  have  a  comment 
 please  leave  it  for  us  we're  happy  to 
 answer  any  questions  hopefully  we've 
 answered  your  questions  about  Native 
 plantings 
 [Music]

---

 chip  and  I  are  here  at  our  house  in 
 Fresno  where  we're  going  to  detail  ways 
 to  inexpensively  add  curb  appeal  and 
 improve  your  landscape  for  a  potential 
 sale  so  we're  moving  and  selling  this 
 house  because  we  built  a  new  house  which 
 is  inspired  by  Bernard  Maybeck 
 matthewson  home  and  you  can  check  out 
 what  my  new  house  looks  like  click  here 
 and  uh  we've  done  a  couple  of  good 
 videos  on  it  so  one  of  the  things  that 
 probably  isn't  that  difficult  to  think 
 of  is  to  add  color  color  is  a  way  to 
 just  Spruce  it  up  immediately  this  whole 
 area  used  to  be  a  little  grape  vineyard 
 and  when  I  knew  I  was  going  to  try  to 
 sell  the  house  I  took  out  the  grape 
 vineyard  because  I  didn't  think  that  was 
 good  for  curb  appeal  although  it  did 
 have  kind  of  a  neat  Mediterranean  look 
 to  it  what  I  did  was  I  planted  it  with  a 
 ground  cover  called  kopia  and  the  kopia 
 hadn't  really  taken  off  so  I  got  six 
 Flats  of  Iceland  poppies  they're  just 
 starting  to  bloom  in  another  week  or  two 
 when  they're  all  blooming  I  think  it'll 
 be  pretty  stunning  uh  entrance  to  the 
 home  in  addition  to  them  blooming  the 
 kopia  is  starting  to  grow  a  little  bit 
 and  I  picture  in  another  month  we'll 
 have  a  lot  less  brown  in  a  combination 
 of  kopia  and  fully  blooming  Iceland 
 poppies  so  that  kind  of  thinking  you  can 
 apply  to  many  parts  of  your  home  a 
 really  good  way  to  use  color  I  haven't 
 done  here  but  maybe  I  should  so  this 
 buganvilia  really  looks  good  most  of  the 
 year  but  when  it  gets  subject  to  frost 
 which  we've  had  some  32°  days  it  looks 
 like  this  in  just  a  short  time  it's 
 going  to  be  full  of  leaves  and  blooming 
 and  so  I  didn't  change  this  but  one 
 place  to  concentrate  your  annual 
 planting  that  really  is  impactful  is  in 
 pots  if  I  was  really  on  top  of  my  game 
 I'd  take  these  buganvilia  out  and  plant 
 annuals  and  you  can  plant  them  real 
 close  together  and  get  them  to  bloom  and 
 that's  how  you  make  this  entrance  look 
 fantastic  the  other  thing  we  could  do  is 
 we  have  these  D  Citrus  in  pots  which  do 
 very  well  there's  still  one  left  from 
 this  season  here  on  this  one  for  curb 
 appeal  that  would  be  another  thing  is  to 
 plant  annuals  under  these  dwarf  Citrus 
 and  that  would  be  very  attractive  and 
 something  I  would  recommend  for  curb 
 appeal  I  skipped  that  so  far  and  we'll 
 see  if  it  hinders  my  ability  to  sell 
 this  house  we  put  a  little  effort  into 
 using  some  kind  of  bark  mulch  in  this 
 case  it  has  a  nice  dark  color  to  improve 
 the  look  of  the  soil  this  is  called 
 Supreme  walk-on  bark  and  we  used  it  in 
 both  sides  of  this  walkway  we  did  that 
 in  all  the  planting  areas  we  just  put  a 
 thin  layer  the  other  thing  we  did  you 
 can  see  we  have  these  walking  paths  made 
 out  of  3/8  in  gravel  this  is  called 
 California  gold  and  it  has  edging  we 
 just  spruced  that  up  a  little  with  a 
 little  bit  of  gravel  on  top  because  over 
 the  years  it  starts  looking  a  little  bit 
 dingy  we  wanted  it  to  have  you  know  a 
 little  brighter  color  and  then  we 
 cleaned  up  where  the  edge  was  so  that 
 you  can  see  the  edge  you  can  see  a 
 distinct  difference  between  where  the 
 planting  area  is  and  where  the  gravel 
 area  is  all  of  those  things  are 
 inexpensive  because  it  doesn't  take  much 
 of  either  you  know  you  can  buy  a  yard  of 
 mulch  for  probably  $50  or  so  and  you  can 
 buy  a  ton  of  3  hents  California  gold  for 
 about  the  same  maybe  a  little  more  $75 
 and  so  you  can  clean  up  all  the  surfaces 
 of  your  garden  even  though  these 
 materials  are  readily  available  and  you 
 could  do  it  yourself  you  can  also  hire 
 somebody  for  very  inexpensive  amounts  to 
 do  these  kinds  of  improvements  since  we 
 have  a  lot  of  things  growing  and 
 sprouting  here  we  didn't  want  to  use  any 
 chemical  so  we've  just  been  hand  pulling 
 the  weeds  but  that's  possible  because  we 
 don't  have  a  garden  with  a  lot  of  weeds 
 because  it's  been  maintained  but  we  put 
 a  little  extra  effort  into  making  sure 
 that  we  don't  have  weeds  you  know 
 there's  certain  uh  themes  to  your  garden 
 or  your  landscape  one  of  the  themes  here 
 is  this  row  of  Mandarin  oranges  called 
 pixie  that's  the  variety  is  supposed  to 
 be  all  one  height  so  one  of  the  first 
 things  we  did  when  we're  trying  to 
 maximize  curb  appeal  is  kind  of  a  clean 
 up  pruning  where  we  get  them  to  look 
 natural  but  we  get  them  to  look  all  the 
 same  height  so  we  didn't  use  hedge 
 trimmers  we  just  came  in  with  hand 
 trimmers  and  pruned  them  all  if  you  have 
 a  lot  of  trees  around  your  house  trees 
 growing  on  the  roof  or  looking  overgrown 
 we're  having  a  lot  of  dead  growth  on  it 
 we  had  some  dead  growth  on  these  popler 
 trees  so  we  pruned  now  this  is  something 
 that  because  of  the  size  of  these  trees 
 at  this  house  you  can't  do  yourself 
 unless  you  happen  to  be  a  good  at 
 climbing  trees  so  you  hire  somebody  to 
 prune  any  any  dead  branches  out  lift 
 them  up  so  they're  not  on  the  roof  in 
 our  case  we  hired  somebody  to  spray  the 
 roof  off  clean  it  you  know  with  a 
 pressure  spray  the  drr  Cedar  and  the 
 Canary  Island  pine  they're  over  100  feet 
 tall  they're  about  120  ft  tall  so  we  had 
 somebody  thin  them  prune  them  lift  them 
 up  not  to  do  a  whole  lot  of  pruning  but 
 to  make  it  look  like  everything's  under 
 control  nothing's  overgrown  nothing's 
 dead  and  dying  that's  the  kind  of 
 pruning  that  you  might  be  confronted 
 with  I've  got  some  herbs  here  and  so  we 
 pruned  off  all  the  old  seed  heads  this 
 is  oregano  that's  oregano  that's  another 
 variety  of  oregano  and  then  I've  got 
 mint  in  these  two  areas  and  it's  just 
 starting  to  come  back  it  was  impacted  by 
 winter  low  temperatures  the  mint  is 
 going  to  fill  these  areas  in  so  for  the 
 sale  all  I  did  was  try  to  keep  the 
 winter  weeds  out  so  if  you  have  an  herb 
 garden  you  can  clean  them  up  and  so 
 it'll  start  to  look  like  an  herb  garden 
 again  as  soon  as  we  get  warmer  weather 
 okay  you  want  to  go  in  the 
 back  we  followed  a  lot  of  the  same 
 principles  we  pruned  everything  that 
 needed  pruning  we  cleaned  up  the  ground 
 plane  with  38  in  gravel  got  rid  of  all 
 the  weeds  one  of  the  rules  of  curb 
 appeal  is  get  that  lawn  as  green  as  you 
 can  get  it  so  that's  what  I'm  doing  by 
 using  the  overseed  because  when  it  first 
 comes  up  it's  really  beautiful  and 
 fertilization  when  we  first  put  the 
 house  on  the  market  the  lawn  was  dormant 
 and  mostly  Brown  I  should  have  overseed 
 it  with  pral  r  earlier  but  I  waited  a 
 little  too  long  and  I  did  it  just  uh 
 about  4  weeks  ago  and  it's  just  starting 
 to  germinate  now  and  then  I  used 
 nourished  biosol  on  it  and  so  it's 
 starting  to  develop  a  nice  color  I 
 prefer  to  use  nourished  biosol  when  I 
 fertilize  because  it's  really  good  for 
 the  soil  and  it  does  more  than  just 
 fertilize  the  lawn  however  if  you're 
 thinking  only  about  selling  your  house 
 and  you  want  that  lawn  to  turn  as  green 
 as  possible  as  soon  as  possible  then  you 
 can  get  a  synthetic  fertilizer  that 
 would  work  faster  than  nourished  by  soil 
 it  would  not  improve  the  soil  then  you 
 would  use  a  winter  type  cool  season 
 releasing  a  synthetic  fertilizer  high  in 
 nitrogen  if  you  have  any  water  features 
 make  sure  they're  working  appropriately 
 clean  all  the  surfaces  as  much  as  you 
 can  that's  a  nice  drinking  fountain  for 
 chip  also  this  paving  material  is  kind 
 of  expensive  probably  not  a 
 do-it-yourself  job  although  you  could  do 
 it  if  you're  good  at  this  type  of  work 
 the  concept  is  very  doable  in  a  lot  of 
 different  ways  you  want  to  look  at  what 
 your  paving  material  is  and  either  fix 
 everything  that  doesn't  look  right  by 
 cutting  it  out  and  patching  it  or 
 figuring  out  some  way  to  do  an  overlay 
 this  was  essentially  an  overlay  the 
 paving  was  very  old  and  had  root  damage 
 and  just  failure  from  it  being  old  so 
 starting  about  6  to  8  months  from  when  I 
 knew  we  might  be  ready  to  sell  it  I 
 started  really  not  replacing  just 
 overlaying  the  paving  and  we  used  a  real 
 thin  porcelain  tile  outdoor  p  and  by 
 using  a  real  thin  one  we  didn't  have  to 
 do  a  lot  of  grading  we  were  able  to  keep 
 the  coping  around  the  pool  as  you  follow 
 along  you  can  see  this  P  we  used  all  the 
 way  around  the  yard  and  down  the  sidey 
 yard  where  we  have  another  water  feature 
 and  some  nice  tropical  plantings  you  can 
 use  any  strategy  to  clean  up  your 
 circulation  make  it  safe  level  and 
 attractive  you  could  use  a  sealer  over 
 the  paving  which  gives  it  a  kind  of  a 
 nice  luster  I  don't  like  to  use  a  real 
 shiny  sealer  and  I  had  already  sealed 
 all  of  this  Paving  and  the  brick  and  so 
 we  just  pressure  washed  everything  but 
 you  could  pressure  wash  it  and  go  over 
 it  with  a  sealer  again  so  that  is 
 another  option  to  make  your  walking 
 Services  as  attractive  as  possible  you 
 might  have  some  parts  of  your  garden 
 that  get  growths  of  moss  and  that's 
 particularly  a  problem  on  Paving  we  do 
 get  some  moss  on  this  brick  patio  if  you 
 spray  it  with  chlorine  or  even  Clorox 
 you  can  get  rid  of  it  it  and  get  rid  of 
 it  quickly  and  while  you're  selling  the 
 house  it's  good  to  try  to  prevent  that 
 from  coming  back  if  you  want  to  buy  the 
 house  that  chip  grew  up  in  um  this  is 
 Chip's  house  so  if  you  want  to  live  in 
 Chip's  house  think  about  buying  uh  it 
 here  at  541  East  Terrace  Avenue  Fresno 
 and  we  lived  here  35  years  really  nice 
 neighborhood  and  a  excellent  house  built 
 in  1922  and  built  in  a  way  that's  meant 
 to  last  if  you'd  like  to  call  our 
 realtor  JT  or  see  the  Zillow  listing 
 it's  in  the  description  below  we  hope 
 you  like  the  video  it's  the  first  time 
 we've  ever  tried  to  sell  a  house  on  our 
 YouTube  channel  we  probably  won't  be 
 doing  this  ever  again  I  hope  if  you 
 liked  it  let  us  know  that  you  liked  it 
 and  tell  all  your  friends  to  subscribe 
 and  watch  our  videos  and  we'll  continue 
 to  make  them  if  you  have  an  idea  of  what 
 would  be  an  important  video  for  us  to  do 
 let  us  know  I  like  that  idea  but  we 
 didn't  what  was  the  idea  to  paint  fresh 
 numbers  on  the  curb  and  if  you  look  at 
 ours  they're  terrible  I  like  that  idea  I 
 recommend  that  but  I  didn't  do  it

---

 we  turned  this  outdated  landscape  into  a 
 useful  Edible 
 Garden  when  I  first  put  this  yard  in  I 
 thought  I  was  going  to  get  edible  plants 
 instead  I  got  ornamental  plants  and  they 
 were  really  pretty  but  then  they  got  too 
 big  for  the  yard  and  it  was  one  of  these 
 things  where  I  didn't  want  to  replace 
 the  whole  thing  I  didn't  want  to  get  too 
 crazy  how  could  we  do  this  at  a  smaller 
 scale  but  still  make  a  big  impact  and  so 
 we've  picked  different  places  inside  the 
 yard  that  were  really  overgrown  and 
 changed  them  to  edible  I'm  John 
 Valentino  president  of  jnab  Bob's 
 Corporation  this  is  Chip  Valentino  vice 
 president  in  charge  of  edible  Gardens 
 we're  here  with  Sherry  the  owner  of  the 
 house  the  thing  that  was  really  bugging 
 me  about  the  old  yard  is  I  was  pouring 
 water  into  something  I  didn't  like  you 
 know  you  get  your  water  bill  and  you're 
 just  it  just  is  sort  of  like  well  maybe 
 I  just  let  it  die  I'm  really  excited  now 
 so  now  I'm  going  to  be  watering  and  I'll 
 pay  my  water  bill  and  I'll  get  something 
 back  for  my  water  bill  if  you  want  to 
 see  some  of  the  big  changes  let's  go  so 
 here  there  were  five  Red  Buds  and  each 
 one  of  them  was  a  different  height  even 
 though  they  were  the  exact  same  trees 
 planted  on  the  exact  same  day  and  they 
 were  the  exact  same  height  when  they 
 went  in  what  we've  done  is  we've  taken 
 those  five  out  and  we've  put  in  a 
 combination  of  citrus  and  almonds  okay 
 John  you're  going  to  have  to  help  me 
 which  one's  which  well  I  know  we  have  a 
 clementine  and  a  golde  there's  the 
 golden  nugget  and  that  one  was  what  is 
 that  I  forget  I  look  this  is  the  Satsuma 
 oh  yeah  but  look  at  this  one  already 
 look  at  all  the  flowers  on  it  I'm  going 
 to  have  oranges  next  year  yeah  how 
 exciting  then  these  three  sticks  cuz 
 that's  all  they  are  they're  my  almond 
 trees  I  know  they're  really  close 
 together  and  John  can  describe  how  he 
 did  that  they're  three  in  one  and  we 
 want  them  to  grow  together  it's  hard  to 
 make  almonds  ornamental  but  that's  what 
 we're  trying  to  do  here  so  they  look 
 good  and  then  she  gets  almonds  from  them 
 and  they  are  also  semid  dwarf  so  they 
 don't  get  as  big  as  regular  almonds  but 
 but  they  are  going  to  grow  together  one 
 of  the  things  that  we  did  is  we're 
 staging  fruit  at  different  times  to  come 
 ripe  so  I  don't  have  an  overwhelming 
 amount  of  one  item  or  10  of  the  same 
 kinds  of  items  so  the  limes  will  ripen 
 at  a  different  time  than  the  Clementine 
 and  it'll  be  nice  to  have  it  staged  out 
 throughout  the  year  and  when  you  get  to 
 the  backyard  you're  going  to  see  more  of 
 that  the  other  thing  we  did  in  this  area 
 is  Cherry  had  this  low  hedge  which  is 
 deciduous  as  you  can  tell  but  it's  dwarf 
 Barberry  burus  the  burg  ey  Nana  it's  got 
 a  beautiful  red  leaf  with  everything 
 getting  overgrown  there  were  some  gaps 
 in  it  so  we  filled  those  in  with  one 
 gallon  berberis  th  Burg  Nana  and  so  this 
 will  be  more  constant  here  we've  got 
 three  more  dwarf  Citrus  I  know  one  of 
 them's  a  lime  a  lime  and  one  of  them  is 
 a  blood  orange  that's  a  blood  orange  and 
 that  one 
 is  a  carera  Cara  orange  yeah  with  the 
 it's  got  a  pink  flesh  to  it  I  made  John 
 keep  the  uh  labels  on  because  see  us 
 stumbling  over  which  is  which  well  but 
 you  did  locate  them  all  on  the  map  put 
 them  on  a  map  but  you  then  you  got  to  go 
 get  the  map  and  then  we  took  out  these 
 Big  Red  Buds  and  some  big  shrubs  and  we 
 added  Mia  sanqua  setsugekka  these  are 
 not  edible  but  they  are  going  to  grow  up 
 right  and  they're  very  finely  textured 
 so  it's  a  nice  plant  for  up  against  the 
 house  and  what  I  like  about  this  is  that 
 you're  joining  the  edible  with  the 
 non-edible  but  it  all  will  just  sort  of 
 blend  together  and  I  think  that's  going 
 to  look  really  nice  and  then  over  here 
 this  is  society  garlic  and  then  these 
 little  tiny  sticks  in  the  center  are 
 aano  and  that  oregano  is  pretty 
 voracious  grower  so  that  we  don't  like 
 HED  trimmers  but  on  oregano  you  can  use 
 hedge  trimmers  to  keep  it  in  bounds  and 
 it'll  it'll  cover  this  whole  area  with 
 the  society  garlic  kind  of  popping 
 through  and  you  can  use  a  society  garlic 
 like  on  top  of  salads  and  that  sort  of 
 thing  I  think  so  I've  never  done  that  I 
 think  it's  edible  it's  probably 
 edible  yeah  you're  alive  yeah  I  think 
 you  could  chop  this  up  and  can  you 
 imagine  a  take  a  piece  of  bread  put  a 
 little  butter  on  it  toast  it  up  and  then 
 sprinkle  this  stuff  on  top  yum  sounds 
 good 
 good  yeah  put  him  in  the  video  my 
 Christmas  Pig  so  this  is  an  area  that  we 
 had  a  type  of  uh  Red  Bud  which  I  forgot 
 the  name  Sherry  had  purchased  it  several 
 years  back  the  top  burned  here  so  we 
 found  a  spot  in  the  back  to  move  it  to 
 weeping  heart  it's  a  weeping  heart  red 
 bud  and  then  we  replaced  it  with  a  a  red 
 Japanese  maple  which  we're  envisioning 
 being  pruned  extensively  so  you  can 
 always  kind  of  look  through  it  out  into 
 the  street  and  she  has  some  prominent 
 Windows  here  that  will  allow  you  to  see 
 it  and  then  we  added  about  75  gon  aelas 
 and  so  it'll  be  a  planting  of  hydrangeas 
 aelas  and  a  couple  of  Japanese  maples  we 
 put  a  lot  of  blend  and  um  penetrate  into 
 the  soil  to  make  these  aelas  look  much 
 healthier  so  we're  expecting  that  to 
 happen  as  early  is  this  spring  and  the 
 whole  idea  is  with  these  big  Windows 
 you're  sitting  in  the  house  and  the 
 outside  and  the  inside  kind  of  become 
 one  and  when  you're  sitting  the  the 
 Hedge  blocks  the  street  that's  nice  and 
 so  it  feels  really  good  yeah  now  if  you 
 recall  when  we  first  talked  and  we  first 
 did  the  first  video  this  is  a  peach  tree 
 and  it  had  limbs  that  were  draping  down 
 like  this  and  and  so  this  got  pruned 
 really  heavily  so  we  pruned  it  for  shape 
 and  production  and  and  we  hope  to  lower 
 the  fruit  a  little  right  right  and  I 
 think  next  next  year  we'll  even  get  more 
 that's  in  Alberta  right  uh-huh  it's  an 
 Alberta  Peach  which  is  an  old  heirloom 
 Peach  and  then  the  next  fruit  tree  is  a 
 an  apricot  right  it's  a  Blenheim 
 Blenheim  apricot  and  so  we  prune  that 
 and  then  way  down  at  the  end  we  pruned 
 that  crab  apple  and  in  all  of  them  we 
 did  a  lot  of  soil  amendment  to  try  to 
 make  this  soil  as  healthy  as  possible 
 because  we  think  that's  the  key  to  fruit 
 trees  that  produce  fruit  abundantly  this 
 is  carrots 
 radishes  and  everything's  starting  to 
 look  okay  that  was  bok  choy  it  looks 
 like  an  animal's  been  in  here  what's 
 over  there  uh  next  to  Brendan  nothing 
 those  are  weeds  oh  those  are  weeds  they 
 look  like  I  got  to  dig  that  whole  bed 
 out  then  there's  three  sticks  in  here 
 mhm  and  they  are  fig  trees  even  calling 
 them  sticks  is 
 generous  they  are  a  French  fig  it's  like 
 violet  Bordeaux  or  something  yeah  yeah 
 you  got  it  and  they're  like  a  black 
 Mission  only  they're  really  small  and 
 then  the  Fig  Tree  is  small  so  what  we're 
 going  to  do  is  to  how  do  you  say  that 
 John  ESP 
 ESP  a  lot  of  people  say  espalier  but  the 
 French  pronunciation  is  make  it  so 
 against  goes  against  something  I've 
 never  uh  expol  a  fig  but  I've  expol  a 
 lot  of  different  fruit  trees  but  I  like 
 that  idea  of  exfoliating  a  fig  I  do  too 
 um  viete  de  Bordeaux  right  that  was  very 
 interest  and  then  I  ordered  one  also  if 
 mine  comes  in  and  it's  bigger  and  it's 
 not  just  these  teeny  little  2in  sticks 
 I'm  going  to  take  out  that  Center  one 
 and  I'll  put  in  my  big  one  yeah  that's 
 good  we  think  the  definition  of  healthy 
 soil  includes  complex  life  we  checked 
 this  soil  and  it  didn't  have  a  lot  of 
 life  in  it  and  it  didn't  have  complex 
 life  it  had  bacteria  but  that's  the 
 lowest  form  of  life  and  bacterial  based 
 soil  isn't  what  we  want  we  want  soil 
 with  bacteria  fungi  protozoa  good 
 nematodes  so  we  added  microbes  food  for 
 microbes  attractant  for  microbes  we're 
 going  to  test  it  again  in  the  spring  if 
 Sher  lets  us  and  we  think  we're  going  to 
 have  a  much  healthier  soil  don't  Trump 
 on  the  hey  chip  CH  Chip  Chip  he  I'll 
 grab  him  oh  you  weigh  like  20  lbs  he 
 does  exactly  so  this  area  you  might 
 recall  had  rose  bushes  which  we  transpl 
 planted  into  another  part  of  the  yard  in 
 the  background  that's  not  edible  that's 
 just  just  a  very  low  maintenance  um 
 plant  that'll  take  this  hot  sun  russelia 
 St  Elmo's  Fire  beautiful  plant  that  gets 
 three  or  fourt  tall  and  it's  kind  of 
 sheer  and  then  under  the  apple  trees  we 
 did  what  I'm  calling  a  kitchen  Garden 
 because  of  the  time  of  the  year  we  did 
 it  there  weren't  many  herbs  available 
 herbs  are  more  available  in  the  spring 
 so  we  used  a  row  of  tuum  which  is  common 
 name  is  germander  we  used  some  alysum 
 which  is  a  great  plant  for  attracting 
 beneficial  insects  and  then  Rosemary 
 and  then  we  added  in  some  creeping  Thyme 
 and  some  not  so  great  looking  but 
 they're  coming  back  that's  Italian 
 parsley  we  at  least  imparted  the  idea  of 
 this  planting  Cherry  can  add  more  herbs 
 or  more  flowers  but  that's  the  idea  of 
 this  strip  under  the  apple  trees  is  like 
 a  kitchen  Garden  two  are  Fuji  and  one  is 
 there's  one  semi  dwarf  and  two  dwarfs 
 yeah  one  is  ambrosia  and  that's  called 
 an  Ultra  Dwarf  and  then  that  Fuji  is  a 
 semi  dwarf  and  then  the  other  Fuji  they 
 they  call  it  an  Ultra  Dwarf  also  the 
 bigger  one  is  in  the  middle  and  then  two 
 smaller  ones  on  each  end  through  pruning 
 we  can  we  can  control  it  I'd  say  we  can 
 keep  this  about  10  ft  and  the  others 
 maybe  6  to  8  ft  Sherry's  going  to  use 
 these  apples  to  eat  and  to  combine  with 
 her  crab  apples  to  make  hard  cider  yep  I 
 can  hardly  wait  I  do  like  hard  cider 
 I'll  be  bottling  like  a  crazy  woman  I 
 had  a  whole  bunch  of  overgrown  I  call 
 Lily  of  the  Nile  what  do  they  really 
 Callan  is  the  botanical  name  Lily  of  the 
 Nile  is  a  common  name  so  they  took  the 
 agap  panths  and  the  roses  from  this 
 other  side  of  the  yard  and  moved  them  in 
 there  and  then  they  runed  The  Olive  Tree 
 so  it  doesn't  look  like  a  giant  Globe 
 now  you  can  see  the  structure  of  it  so 
 we  thinned  it  and  made  it  look  like  a 
 tree  instead  of  a  big  ball  we  think 
 that's  going  to  be  pretty  spectacular 
 cuz  roses  and  agapanthus  do  frequently 
 Bloom  at  the  the  same  time  those  are 
 Iceberg  roses  so  they're  going  to  be 
 white  and  then  egap  pantis  dark  bluish 
 and  in  the  back  there  that  stick  against 
 the  fence  that  came  from  the  front  yard 
 and  that  is  that  weeping  red  bud  and 
 then  we  added  three  Japanese  arelia 
 around  it  we  want  to  fill  that  in  so  you 
 don't  see  the  fence  so  prominently  when 
 the  Weeping  Red  Bud  gets  leaves  that'll 
 help  also  the  Weeping  red  bud  is 
 supposed  to  get  8  ft  by  8  ft  which  is 
 perfect  underneath  that  PO  carpus 
 because  of  what  it's  planted  under  all 
 those  trees  we  think  it'll  get  a  good 
 exposure  for  that  it  it  requires  quite  a 
 bit  of  shade  in  our  area  she  noticed  in 
 the  front  it  got  burned  when  it  was 
 subject  to  Sun  and  so  then  they  trimmed 
 down  all  these  agap  Panther  divided  some 
 reped  they  had  to  put  some  in  the  holes 
 or  some  of  them  where  they  weren't 
 anywhere  and  then  of  course  they  did 
 leave  my  chickens  cuz  I  do  love  my 
 chickens  here's  a  bush  that  was  left  you 
 know  the  clubbed  into  submission  Bush 
 you  got  to  have  a  few  it  would  be  kind 
 of  harsh  to  take  it  out  it  kind  of 
 covers  this  corner  nicely  so  we  left  it 
 and  then  we  come  into  an  ultra  edible 
 area  that  we  created  by  taking  out  old 
 shrubs  some  uh  fenia  and  some  uh  privet 
 I  think  we  took  out  or  as  the  background 
 screen  we  planted  four  named  variety 
 fola  cellana  or  pineapple  guava  and  the 
 named  variety  I'm  I'm  eager  to  try  these 
 because  they're  supposed  to  be  better 
 than  if  you  just  go  to  the  nursery  and 
 buy  pineapple  guava  shrubs  they're  bred 
 for  being  bigger  tastier  and  better 
 eating  and  then  a  lower  Greening  shrub 
 that  fits  in  with  this  edible  concept  is 
 this  little  Ragu  Bay  Tree  so  if  you're 
 familiar  with  the  Grecian  Laurel  that's 
 a  big  Bay  Tree  these  are  dwarf  versions 
 and  they  can  also  be  used  in  cooking  the 
 cultiv  our  little  Ragu  a  reference  to  it 
 being  good  in  spaghetti  sauce  we  talked 
 about  one  a  flavor  King  plat  they're  not 
 self  fertile  so  we  got  two  plats  one 
 flavor  king  that's  a  dapp  Dandy  and  dapp 
 dandy  hopefully  dapple  Dand  is  a  really 
 popular  one  yeah  so  you're  familiar  with 
 I'm  familiar  with  both  of  them  oh  and 
 this  one  I'll  end  up  making  more  jams 
 out  of  this  is  going  to  be  more  eating 
 and  so  then  we  left  uh  a  lot  of  what  she 
 had  in  these  other  areas  that's  another 
 Blenheim  apricot  over  there  those  sticks 
 we  pruned  that  a  little  bit  that  was 
 pruned  and  then  a  an  aelia  was  added  and 
 the  aelia  was  added  because  it  the  other 
 one  had  died  then  there  was  a  dead  one 
 back  there  and  they  took  that  one  out  so 
 that  area  just  got  cleaned  up  so  we  kept 
 Sherry's  half  circle  of  the  dwarf 
 Nandina  which  is  very  attractive 
 beautiful  colors  this  time  of  the  year 
 an  attractive  finish  to  a  landscape 
 project  or  gardening  project  is  to  use 
 mulch  in  all  the  planting  areas  we  used 
 about  an  inch  to  an  inch  and  a  half 
 layer  of  top  dressing  mulch  this  one's 
 called  Supreme  walk-  on  bark  made  from 
 the  bark  and  the  wood  of  Douglas  fur  it 
 doesn't  have  to  be  that  kind  but  some 
 kind  of  mulch  particularly  over  our 
 products  make  our  products  even  more 
 effective  makes  weed  control  more  viable 
 protects  soil  from  Sun  and  rain  it's 
 just  an  excellent  thing  to  have  for  the 
 health  of  your  soil  are  you  happy  with 
 how  it  turned  out  oh  yes  I'm  really 
 happy  because  I  don't  know  if  I  can  eat 
 all  this  food  but  uh  I  go  to  a  gym  and  I 
 take  it  to  the  gym  cuz  you  know  fruit's 
 good  for  people  they  should  take  it  I  am 
 excited  to  have  fruit  I  should  have 
 fruit  pretty  much  around  the  year  so  yes 
 I'm  extremely  excited  this  year  I  don't 
 think  I'll  have  a  ton  of  fruit  this  year 
 these  trees  are  small  but  even  if  I  get 
 like  one  or  two  Platts  for  instance  or 
 one  or  two  oranges  you  know  that's  kind 
 of  that  gives  you  a  feel  for  what  it's 
 going  to  be  like  in  the  future  I  bet  you 
 maybe  not  this  year  but  I  bet  next  year 
 I  have  more  fruit  than  I  can  eat  I  don't 
 think  you'll  have  too  many 
 figs  unless  my  fig  tree  arrives  then  I 
 might  well  and  maybe  come  back  in  the 
 summer  because  in  the  summer  these  trees 
 behind  me  are  absolutely  stunning  and 
 it's  like  being  in  a  park  here  You'  just 
 be  shocked  at  what  this  yard  looks  like 
 we're  eager  to  come  back  if  you  like 
 this  video  indicate  you  did  by  liking  it 
 and  subscribing  if  you're  not  already 
 subscribed  I  noticed  we're  up  over 
 35,000  subscribers  we'd  like  to  get  to 
 50,000  Maybe  sher's  video  here  will 
 Propel  Us  in  that  direction

---

 do  you  need  an  update  in  your  small 
 front  yard  maybe  a  little  more  curb 
 appeal  what  we  did  here  is  exactly  that 
 we  think  this  is  a  really  beautiful 
 house  let's  show  off  the  house  rather 
 than  try  to  hide  it  with  big  shrubs  we 
 got  to  prune  into  submission  we'll  look 
 at  these  plants  which  are  good  for  small 
 front  yards  and  we'll  try  to  suggest 
 some  other  plants  that  we  didn't  use 
 here  that  would  work  for  small  front 
 yards  without  having  to  do  a  lot  of 
 pruning  so  we  just  let  them  grow  into 
 their  natural  form  that's  the  style  that 
 I  like  to  use  for  planting  in  front  of  a 
 house  like  this  I'm  John  Valentino 
 president  of  John  and  Bob's  Corporation 
 I'm  here  with  chip  Valentino  he's  vice 
 president  in  charge  of  small  Intimate 
 Gardens  and  uh  he's  got  his  camera  on 
 today  so  he's  going  to  be  filming  and 
 again  you  can  see  who  is  able  to  come  up 
 with  better  photography  Brandon  or  chip 
 curb  appeal  includes  screening  hoses  and 
 whole  house  water  filters  and  pipes  and 
 make  it  as  attractive  as  possible  where 
 we're  only  looking  at  things  that  are 
 nice  to  look  at  rather  than  the 
 infrastructure  of  the  garden  so  these 
 are  ice  cap  roses  and  the  reason  I 
 didn't  put  them  in  a  straight  line  is 
 I'm  trying  to  get  this  one  to  screen 
 this  from  standing  on  the  front  porch 
 which  the  owners  are  concerned  about 
 that'll  get  two  to  three  ft  tall  I  think 
 it  will  screen  it  so  you  don't  notice  it 
 when  you're  standing  right  here  you  know 
 they  sprout  like  crazy  in  the  spring 
 we'll  have  a  real  good  idea  of  ultimate 
 size  just  in  the  the  first  spring  here 
 what  we  did  in  order  to  screen  this  is 
 is  we  put  a  wing  wall  about  18  in  high 
 and  3  ft  long  on  either  side  of  the 
 existing  chimney  and  the  reason  we  did 
 it  on  this  side  is  because  then  it  looks 
 symmetrical  we  think  the  combination  of 
 the  plant  growth  and  the  wing  walls 
 going  to  do  a  beautiful  job  of  screening 
 that  right  in  front  of  the  chimney  we 
 have  three  russelia  St  Elmo  fire  which 
 are  kind  of  a  lacy  but  somewhat  upright 
 that'll  get  3  to  4T  tall  we  picked  the 
 little  dnla  there  to  screen  the  valves 
 that's  going  to  be  effective  it's  not 
 going  to  get  real  big  we  wanted  to 
 screen  that  hose  bib  and  where  they  want 
 to  keep  the  hose  so  the  purpose  of  the 
 plants  between  the  lawn  and  the  walk  are 
 to  screen  that  side  yard  so  you  can't 
 see  the  hose  and  even  those  valves  get 
 screened  once  these  plants  grow  along 
 with  the  Della  we  didn't  want  to  put  a 
 step  here  because  it  would  really  be  a 
 Tripper  it  would  just  be  a  couple  inches 
 so  we  sloped  this  a  little  bit  we  put 
 the  russelia  St  Elmo  fire  in  front  you 
 won't  even  see  the  slope  once  it  grows 
 that  Roselia  come  all  the  way  to  the 
 brick  and  then  we  have  these  valves 
 which  is  nice  to  kind  of  leave  without 
 Paving  right  around  it  so  that  if  you 
 have  to  do  some  kind  of  Maintenance 
 there  and  you  can  work  in  it  rather  than 
 Paving  we  have  a  drain  for  the  Downs 
 spout  that  drains  the  roof  really  sandy 
 soil  here  so  we  dug  a  big  hole  filled  it 
 with  gravel  the  combination  of  the 
 gravel  and  the  sand  will  drain  very  well 
 if  we  were  in  heavy  soil  we  would  have 
 put  a  pipe  on  it  and  and  took  it  to  the 
 street  and  we  did  the  same  thing  on  the 
 other  side  and  that'll  be  hidden  too 
 with  these  when  these  roses  Sprout  we 
 also  went  and  repaired  the  other  side 
 service  walk  that  was  buckling  and 
 coming  apart  my  thinking  on  little 
 walkways  is  to  make  them  as  simple  and 
 as  direct  as  possible  a  lot  of  that  was 
 already  in  but  it  used  to  come  way  out 
 to  about  where  I'm  standing  here  so  we 
 changed  it  to  where  it's  just  accessible 
 from  the  front  porch  not  real  fancy  not 
 real  circuitous  but  very  direct  what  do 
 you  think  of  Chip's  photography  he  seems 
 to  be  focused  on  one  very  steady  subject 
 there  because  he's  not  doing  a  lot  of 
 moving  around  so  this  100-year-old  house 
 had  a  number  of  issues  that  seemed  to 
 happen  all  at  once  the  owners  feel  like 
 the  first  thing  that  started  the 
 declination  of  the  health  of  their 
 plants  right  up  against  the  front  facade 
 was  the  death  of  several  trees  in  the 
 neighborhood  not  necessarily  on  their 
 property  and  it  completely  changed  the 
 exposure  that  that  big  Japanese  maple 
 got  and  the  plants  under  the  Japanese 
 maple  that's  a  Southern  Exposure  and  now 
 more  open  because  these  large  trees  that 
 were  shading  the  front  of  the  house  are 
 gone  then  that  forced  them  to 
 re-evaluate  the  whole  front  of  the  house 
 and  go  to  a  little  bit  different 
 philosophy  and  that  is  to  hide  the  house 
 less  and  use  just  a  simple  planting  and 
 we  use  things  that  aren't  going  to  get 
 real  big  that  don't  need  pruning  like 
 the  prior  one  we  had  now  you  can 
 probably  go  to  a  once  a  year  pruning 
 these  plants  will  remain  small  and  be 
 really  complimentary  to  this 
 architecture  which  is  very  attractive 
 then  on  the  east  side  under  the  existing 
 crpe  Myrtle  we  use  a  really  delicate 
 relatively  new  Nandina  called  flirt  we 
 have  nine  little  1gallon  flirt  and  flirt 
 does  not  get  big  you  won't  have  to  prune 
 it  and  it's  got  a  real  neat  form  and 
 color  in  the  winter  and  fall  so  very 
 simple  but  kind  of  a  different  way  of 
 thinking  about  the  front  yard  than  had 
 before  so  this  lawn  is  in  bad  shape 
 because  they  had  to  put  a  brand  new 
 water  service  to  their  house  in  the 
 course  of  replacing  the  Water  Service 
 they  put  in  a  whole  house  filter  the 
 other  thing  that  was  happening  here  is 
 because  the  shrubs  were  so  big  and  had 
 gotten  big  over  the  years  they  had 
 intruded  on  the  lawn  and  so  once  they 
 took  those  shrubs  out  there  were  big 
 bare  areas  we  hid  all  of  that  and  we 
 kind  of  put  the  lawn  back  together  put  a 
 heavy  application  of  blend  which  is 
 maximized  biosol  and  optimize  and  so 
 we're  trying  to  bring  this  lawn  back 
 chips  back  to  his  regular  filming  there 
 you  know  there's  a  lot  of  varieties  of 
 chamia  sanqua  the  nice  thing  about 
 chamia  sanqua  in  neighborhoods  like  this 
 that  have  all  kinds  of  vegetation 
 creating  challenging  exposures  where 
 you're  never  sure  how  much  sun  or  shade 
 you're  going  to  get  and  chamia  Sanu  will 
 take  sun  or  shade  and  there's  lots  of 
 different  forms  there's  low  growing  ones 
 and  there's  upright  ones  so  chilia  San 
 is  one  I'd  look  at  there's  other  forms 
 of  Nandina  besides  flirt  that  we 
 mentioned  here  lopy  is  another  one  but 
 it's  awfully  small  but  it  also  takes  sun 
 and  shade  and  different  exposures  if 
 it's  full  sun  something  like  a  society 
 garlic  here's  a  list  of  plants  that  are 
 good  in  a  small  yard 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 so  let  us  know  if  you  have  any  comments 
 about  our  uh  video  on  a  Mini  front  yard 
 and  also  uh  if  you  liked  it  please  like 
 it  if  you  liked  it  have  all  your  friends 
 and  relatives  subscribe  to  our  channel 
 so  we  can  get  to  uh  50,000  subscribers 
 our  current  goal

---

 traditional  Gardens  in  many  parts  of  the 
 country  are  big  expanses  of  lawn  and  so 
 the  tendency  with  a  zcape  garden  is  just 
 to  figure  out  how  to  replace  that  lawn 
 with  something  that  doesn't  take  water 
 and  that's  not  how  I  think  about  a 
 functional  attractive  appealing 
 zeroscape  Garden  I  think  you  should 
 think  even  more  about  the  use  of  the 
 garden  and  so  this  idea  of  useful  spaces 
 is  even  more  applicable  in  zeroscape 
 gardens  and  you  can  use  plant  material 
 as  you  see  we've  picked  some  things  here 
 that  are  extremely  water  efficient  and 
 you  would  never  know  they're  water 
 efficient  because  they  almost  have  a 
 lush  look  about  them  since  we're  in  an 
 existing  Garden  that  has  existing  trees 
 all  around  it  there's  certain  part  of 
 the  yard  that  are  shady  and  so  we  have 
 sections  like  I'm  sitting  in  right  now 
 where  the  plants  aren't  necessarily 
 completely  water  efficient  they  don't 
 take  a  lot  of  water  because  they're  in 
 the  shade  most  of  the  day  the  plants 
 here  in  the  shade  are  Mexican 
 heather  also  known  as  kufa  and  this  Lori 
 or  some  people  call  it  liop  blue  Lily 
 Turf  is  the  common  name  and  then  right 
 in  front  of  the  blue  Lily  Turf  is  a  low 
 growing  white  blooming  ground  cover 
 that's  a  form  of  lur  pedum  and  it's  a 
 white  dwarf  Laura  pedum  that  stays 
 relatively  low  probably  going  to  stay 
 about  18  in  tall  and  in  front  of  that  we 
 have  sea 
 lavender  on  the  other  side  of  the  Walk 
 that  gets  a  lot  of  sun  we  used  the  kopia 
 and  in  the  parking  strip  to  kopia  under 
 ginkos  and  then  we  have  the  St  Elmos 
 Fire  which  is  a  type  of  russelia  that's 
 really  colorful  and  doing  very  well  and 
 we  have  Sedum  Autumn  Joy  which  is  just 
 starting  to  bloom  now  and  it  blooms 
 pretty  much  right  through  the  summer  and 
 then  on  the  other  side  of  the  walk  we 
 did  the  dwarf  version  of  Iceberg  roses 
 called  ice  cap 
 roses  we're  in  California  and  I  lik  the 
 fact  that  these  owners  were  very  much 
 into  trying  to  come  up  with  something 
 low  in  water  use  and  high  in 
 usefulness  they  wanted  something  that 
 could  kind  of  take  care  of  itself  and  by 
 having  these  fairly  large  expanses  of 
 gravel  and  olives  and  Paving  we've 
 created  that  where  it  looks  great  and 
 yet  we  don't  have  to  be  out  babying  any 
 plants  or  you  know  making  sure  the  zelas 
 have  enough  water  because  there  are  no 
 aelas  and  the  only  plants  here  are  tough 
 things  like  Lantana  Salvia  Rosemary  so 
 the  way  to  limit  maintenance  is  to  just 
 apply  water  minimally  and  only  where 
 it's  needed  if  you  look  at  this  Garden 
 it's  made  up  of  massings  of  low 
 maintenance  low  water  use  plants  and  if 
 you  deliver  water  just  to  where  those 
 plants  are  with  drip  irrigation  so  allow 
 it  to  just  soak  in  slowly  and  don't  put 
 water  all  in  between  the  plants  then 
 you're  not  going  to  have  weed  pressures 
 in  between  the  plants  you're  not  going 
 to  have  a  lot  of  standing  water  you're 
 not  going  to  have  drainage  issues  this 
 is  a  key  if  you're  trying  to  really  uh 
 minimize  maintenance  minimize  the  need 
 for  water  this  decomposed  Granite  is 
 another  option  that  you  can  use  to  take 
 up  space  and  it's  a  nice  contrasting 
 texture  uh  works  well  in  parking  strips 
 uh  in  this  case  you'll  see  it  next  to 
 this  bold  texture  of  these  big  cobbles 
 uh  so  the  cobbles  are  attractive 
 obviously  they're  low  maintenance  um  and 
 they  give  uh  a  nice  look  to  a  garden 
 where  you're  trying  to  take  up  space 
 with  things  that  don't  use  water  and  yet 
 still  look  nice  they  really  wanted  to 
 get  away  from  mowing  the  lawn  and  really 
 having  kind  of  a  front  landscape  that 
 was  enveloping  their  house  if  you  look 
 at  it  before  they  were  these  big  shrubs 
 that  they  always  had  to  cut  back  and  you 
 see  this  frequently  seems  to  have 
 originated  with  the  fact  that  houses 
 used  to  be  built  with  ugly  foundations 
 and  so  an  important  part  of  the 
 landscape  was  foundation  planting  in 
 other  words  planting  to  hide  the  ugly 
 foundations  well  we've  evolved  into 
 houses  that  don't  have  ugly  foundations 
 but  the  foundation  planting  seems  to 
 have  persisted  and  we're  always  trying 
 to  bring  the  plants  out  into  the  garden 
 rather  than  have  this  row  of  plants  up 
 against  the  house  that's  the  tallest 
 biggest  thing  you  can  even  look  around 
 in  this  subdivision  and  see  that's  still 
 common  today  a  useful  important  Garden 
 in  my  mind  is  if  you  want  to  minimize 
 maintenance  to  do  it  with  plants  that 
 you  can  allow  to  grow  to  their  natural 
 forms  and  you  don't  have  to  be  clubbing 
 them  into  submission  in  order  for  them 
 not  to  swallow  up  your  house  we've  put 
 in  U  low  growing  buganvilia  and  yua 
 filamentosa  color  guard  all  things  that 
 are  going  to  stay  small  aren't  going  to 
 need  pruning  they  can  just  pretty  much 
 let  grow  and  now  and  then  do  some  annual 
 pruning  like  on  the  Lantana  and  things 
 that  get  spent  flowers  you  can  see  in 
 this  house  uh  it  had  foundation  planting 
 and  other  planting  that  just  made  it 
 almost  impossible  to  see  the  house  so 
 the  first  thing  we  wanted  to  do  here  is 
 to  reveal  the  house  and  reveal  the  style 
 of  it  and  the  architecture  of  it  and  so 
 to  open  it  up  that  required  removing  a 
 lot  of  plants  and  then  replanting  in  a 
 style  that  allows  it  to  be  somewhat  open 
 but  since  it's  a  west  facing  exposure  we 
 still  wanted  to  provide  a  lot  of  shade 
 there's  existing  trees  here  that  we 
 maintained  and  pruned  close  to  the  uh 
 Street  and  then  we  uh  removed  every 
 almost  everything  that  was  around  the 
 house  regraded  everything  then  we 
 replanted  with  uh  this  line  of  River 
 Birch  this  is  a  variety  called  Dura  Heat 
 Birch  nice  shade  from  the  Western  Sun 
 and  yet  it'll  allow  light  in  in  the 
 winter  because  it  does  drop  its  leaves 
 and  it's  pretty  well  behaved  no  root 
 problems  we  have  three  different  things 
 going  on  here  we've  got  a  nice  mulch 
 cover  we  have  decomposed  granite  and 
 then  we  have  this  Desert  Gold  Rock 
 in  most  Landscapes  we  use  a  mulch  cover 
 because  I  think  that's  the  best  for  the 
 soil  the  owners  in  this  case 
 specifically  requested  this  rock  which 
 is  becoming  more  popular  some  people 
 associate  it  with  kind  of  a 
 Mediterranean  maybe  SL  native  plant  look 
 where  the  plants  are  a  little  sparer  and 
 don't  use  a  lot  of  water  and  rock  is  the 
 ground  cover  as  you  can  see  on  the  ends 
 of  the  project  because  of  existing 
 Landscapes  it  had  to  transition  into  we 
 used  the  traditional  mulch  so  you  can 
 see  his  planting  on  the  other  side  of 
 his  driveway  we  used  a  more  traditional 
 mulch  because  his  neighbor  had  it  and  we 
 thought  that  was  a  better  transition 
 from  one  yard  to  the  next  this  is  also  a 
 Zer  Escape  Garden  as  you  can  see  the 
 area  where  we're  using  a  lawn  substitute 
 Kopi  again  and  you  can  see  how  it  was 
 planted  kind  of  on  3ft  centers  and  this 
 was  planted  in  late  February  it's  doing 
 very  well  and  it's  a  very  simple  garden 
 with  big  Agave  which  were  existing  and 
 then  we  added  a  bunch  of  little  John 
 bottle  brush  you  can  see  these  white 
 multi-trunk  crpe  myrtles  very  simple 
 with  River  Rock  and  very  nice  Zer  Escape 
 Garden  that's  low  maintenance  one  of  the 
 needs  is  this  faces  South  and  it  gets 
 just  baked  uh  in  the  summer  and  so  they 
 wanted  large  trees  that  would  shade  the 
 house  over  time  and  then  they  wanted  to 
 grow  vegetables  in  a  garden  without  the 
 whole  yard  looking  like  a  vegetable 
 garden  and  they  also  wanted  it  to  be  low 
 water  using  and  so  they  wanted  a  plant 
 pallet  of  completely  low  water  using 
 plants  this  Cobble  we  just  set  on 
 decomposed  granite  and  then  we  put  sand 
 in  between  these  butterfly  bush  were 
 planted  then  amongst  the  Cobble  and 
 that's  a  nice  look  here  at  the  entrance 
 the  trees  that  we  used  here  are  Keith 
 DAV  Chinese  pistache  which  is  Chinese 
 pistache  that's  grafted  and  so  that  it 
 doesn't  have  berries  and  guarantees  the 
 fall  color  spectacular  fall  color  a 
 large  Southern  Live  Oak  then  we  used  the 
 fruitless  olives  lining  the  walk  and 
 then  we  used  multi-trunk  Naz  CRP  Myrtle 
 you'll  see  three  of  them  so  the  nature 
 of  the  plants  is  different  on  the 
 interior  Courtyard  an  idea  that  I  like 
 even  in  Zur  Escape  Gardens  in  the 
 entries  and  in  closeup  areas  you  can 
 have  plants  that  require  more  water  and 
 or  Lusher  so  the  idea  of  the  courtyard 
 is  it  will  have  things  like  Japanese 
 Maples  an  Eastern  red  bud  Lamb's  Ear  and 
 variegated  lopy  and  uh  special  dwarf 
 Nandina  the  smoke  bush  which  is  the 
 dwarf  smoke  bush  so  this  area  is 
 decomposed  Granite  because  it's  going  to 
 be  three  or  four  raised  planters  for 
 vegetables  and  the  planting  idea  is 
 these  shrubs  which  look  small  right  now 
 they'll  grow  together  be  an  informal 
 hedge  that'll  be  about  6  ft  tall  that 
 will  will  screen  the  view  of  the 
 vegetable  garden  from  the  street  but 
 because  of  this  exposure  we'll  get  a  lot 
 of  sun  and  it'll  be  a  good  spot  to  grow 
 vegetables  you  can  see  the  entry  to  the 
 garage  here  and  then  the  planting 
 focuses  on  a  screen  where  the  neighbor's 
 property  can  be  screened  using  privet 
 which  is  a  background  screening  shrub 
 white 
 Lantana  red  hesper  Alo  and  two  kinds  of 
 salvia  Salvia  Luca  and  Salvia  grei  we 
 have  the  same  types  of  planting  on  both 
 sides  of  the  driveway  and  then  those 
 plants  are  used  over  and  over  throughout 
 the  rest  of  the  garden  what  we  like  to 
 do  is  not  use  one  plant  here  and  one 
 plant  there  but  come  up  with  a  fairly 
 small  plant  pallet  and  then  use  it  in 
 bold  ways  when  you  Mass  plants  you 
 really  are  affording  yourself  a  a  real 
 look  into  their  beauty  because  when  they 
 bloom  they  bloom  all  together  and  uh  and 
 and  they  make  quite  an  impact  one  of  the 
 things  that  I  think  will  pay  off  in  the 
 years  to  come  you  can  see  these  are 
 small  Lots  with  big  houses  a  lot  of 
 times  mistakes  are  done  with  the  size  of 
 the  trees  and  here  we  used  very  small 
 trees  so  that  we're  not  going  to  have 
 any  problems  down  the  road  with  cracking 
 sidewalks  and  with  trees  that  get  too 
 close  to  the  house  and  spread  out  over 
 the  roof  and  all  of  that  in  this  case  we 
 used  the  Majestic  Beauty  Raphael  epis 
 either  you  think  of  it  as  a  large  shrub 
 or  a  very  small  tree  gets  about  10  to  15 
 ft  tall  and  grows  a  little  bit  like  a 
 lollipop  as  you  walk  through  the  garden 
 there's  a  completely  different  type  of 
 outdoor  space  with  the  patio  and  some 
 plantings  and  garden  ornaments  that  they 
 got  mostly  from  Thailand  I  think  to  kind 
 of  tie  in  with  the  theme  we  used  this 
 nice  look  of  Mexican  Cobble  we  hand 
 placed  them  into  decomposed  Granite  one 
 ground  cover  is  d  d  y  m  o  n  d  i  i  and 
 then  Asian  Jasmine  then  we  have  another 
 type  of  outdoor  seating  area  the 
 planting  here  again  is  more  white 
 Lantana  you  can  see  that  dwarf  Olive 
 shrub  curves  around  and  is  a  mass 
 planting  that  will  provide  some  screen 
 of  the  neighbors  and  then  that  goes  into 
 a  real  big  screening  plant  the  Texas 
 privet  which  will  grow  to  almost  as  tall 
 as  you  want  it  and  so  we'll  have  a 
 background  screen  instead  of  looking  at 
 a  block  wall  we'll  be  looking  at  a  green 
 screen  of  Texas  privet  I  think  on  the 
 other  side  we  used  a  type  of  Carolina 
 Cherry  so  both  block  walls  are  screened 
 the  plant  pallet  here  is  the  olives  in 
 this  case  we  used  just  four  fruitless 
 olives  in  a  multi  fashion  so  very  low 
 maintenance  appropriate  for  this  small 
 garden  not  going  to  get  too  big  and  not 
 going  to  envelop  the  house  and  overpower 
 anything  not  going  to  crack  sidewalk 
 blue  glow  agavi  a  lot  of  agave  would  be 
 too  big  for  this  site  at  7  years  old 
 they  don't  really  get  any  bigger  than 
 this  so  it's  a  dwarf  Agave  Little  John 
 bottle  brush  which  we  used  as  an 
 informal  hedge  you  can  see  those  were 
 planted  pretty  close  together  and 
 they're  just  growing  together  to  create 
 a  separation  between  the  courtyard  and 
 the  street  on  the  other  side  of  the 
 driveway  they  used  uh  Skyrocket  Juniper 
 as  a  screen  and  then  some  dayes  a  little 
 bit  of  Blue  Fescue  so  a  simple  plant 
 pallet  all  easy  to  grow  and  low  water 
 use  so  in  selecting  plants  to  fit  with  a 
 garden  like  this  I  like  to  look  at  lists 
 and  so  if  we  establish  that  it's  going 
 to  be  water  efficient  then  I'd  look  at 
 lists  of  water  efficient  plants  and  that 
 allows  you  to  kind  of  open  up  your  brain 
 and  come  up  with  things  so  you  would 
 look  at  lists  with  the  size  that  you 
 want  in  mind  whether  you  want  them  to  be 
 evergreen  or  Bloom  and  the  emotion  that 
 it  evokes  it's  a  combination  of  the  same 
 way  you  pick  out  trees  making  decisions 
 based  on  how  they  function  in  your 
 garden  and  how  they  meet  your  needs  and 
 how  they  are  to  maintain  the  leading 
 ones  in  this  Garden  I'd  say  would  be  the 
 height  the  size  which  we  want  to  keep 
 everything  kind 
 of  secondary  to  these  big  spectacular 
 olives  this  already  had  spia  Anthony 
 water  we  used  that  on  the  other  side 
 then  we  used  a  great  screen  where  we're 
 going  to  try  to  screen  the  neighbor  L 
 house  and  landscape  with  a  dwarf 
 Japanese  blueberry  shrub  we've  got 
 Salvia  and  an  upright  Rosemary  called 
 Tuscan  blue  and  then  we've  got  a  Loni 
 I've  got  some  s  Elmos  Fire  here  which 
 actually  aren't  going  to  stay  when  we 
 put  the  pots  in  it's  going  to  be  agave 
 and  then  we've  got  some  Oak  Leaf 
 hydrangeas  which  are  close  cler  to  the 
 house  and  then  some  existing  planting 
 [Music] 
 [Music]

---

 almost  every  day  I'm  asked  questions 
 about  pests  and  there's  a  wide  range  of 
 pests  in  those  questions  I'm  going  to 
 try  to  mention  every  single  one  I  get 
 questions  about  and  how  to  best  address 
 them  organically  so  in  a  healthy  way 
 that's  good  for  our  environment  good  for 
 the  soil  good  for 
 us  I'm  John  Valentino  this  is  Chip 
 Valentino  he's  my  vice  president  in 
 charge  of  pest  suppression  I've  been 
 working  in  this  field  now  for  46  years 
 so  I  have  some  suggestions  for  you 
 particularly  regarding  organic  control 
 if  you're  watching  for  a  specific  Pest 
 and  don't  want  to  watch  this  whole 
 fantastic  video  then  you  can  refer  below 
 which  will  direct  you  to  specific 
 chapters  we  could  you  know  go  get  the 
 traffic  control  and  put  it  should 
 filming  and  progress  I  we  don't  have  to 
 explain  it  we  just  block  the 
 road  they  don't  know  what  it's  called 
 and  a  lot  of  times  they  don't  know  what 
 it  looks  like  but  you  notice  when  your 
 flowers  bloom  then  there's  something 
 eating  the  flowers  and  that's  Rose 
 Weevil  pretty  frustrating  and  mostly 
 prevalent  on  white  and  yellow  roses  now 
 if  you  don't  want  to  have  Rose  Weevil  um 
 plant  deeply  colored  roses  and  you  won't 
 have  Rose  Weevil  I  think  the  best  way  to 
 address  Rose  Weevil  is  to  apply 
 beneficial  nematodes  early  in  the  spring 
 I  recommend  that  you  get  them  uh  from 
 Aro  and  they  have  got  a  pretty  good 
 description  on  there  of  which  ones  to 
 buy  there's  different  species  but 
 beneficial  nematodes  for  a  rose  Weevil 
 is  is  pretty  darn  effective  plus 
 beneficial  nematodes  are  really 
 interesting  because  that's  really  what 
 we're  trying  to  build  in  the  soil  that's 
 one  of  the  higher  life  forms  of 
 beneficial  microbes  so  while  we're 
 building  bacteria  and  fungi  and  protozoa 
 then  right  above  all  of  those  are 
 beneficial  nematodes  and  they  can  keep 
 your  plant  safe  from  almost  everything 
 the  whole  point  of  using  our  products 
 and  using  things  like  earthworm  castings 
 and  compost  is  they're  all  around 
 building  the  soil  and  the  soil  is  the 
 most  effective  and  efficient  way  to  keep 
 your  plants  healthy  if  in  the  meantime 
 while  you're  building  it  you  have  a 
 problem  with  a  pest  or  two  or  three  our 
 philosophy  is  let's  address  that  pest  in 
 the  most  beneficial  way  for  the  soil 
 possible  so  we  can  get  rid  of  the  pest 
 without  damaging  the  soil  maybe  even 
 improving  the 
 soil  Rose  s  flies  row  slugs  those  are 
 most  likely  the  same  thing  they  could  be 
 in  different  stages  of  the  development 
 you  can  use  the  beneficial  bacteria 
 based  organic  pesticide  called  spinosad 
 different  brands  you  can  get  that  have 
 spinosad  in  it  and  also  beneficial 
 nematodes  are  effective  again  in  the 
 early  spring  why  not  apply  beneficial 
 nematodes  then  you  can  address  Rose 
 Weevil  Rose  slugs  and  saw  flies  we  will 
 be  talking  about  quite  a  few  different 
 products  and  you  can  reference  those 
 products  in  the  description 
 below  so  the  most  harmless  way  to  get 
 rid  of  aphid  and  white  flying  the  first 
 thing  to  try  is  with  a  blast  of  water 
 sometimes  that'll  work  especially  if 
 it's  not  a  major  infestation  my  favorite 
 way  is  not  a  very  easy  way  but  it's 
 fantastic  for  soil  and  that  is  to  use 
 our  blend  around  the  root  ball  and  then 
 on  top  of  the  blend  use  about  2  in  of  a 
 earthworm  casting  like  worm  Gold  Plus 
 tremendously  effective  for  a  white  fly 
 and  aphid  if  you're  trying  to  just 
 immediately  kill  some  aphid  with 
 something  you  spray  on  our  uh  enviral 
 repel  40  works  pretty  well  number  of 
 oils  and  Botanicals  in  there  one  of  the 
 main  active  ingredients  that's  really 
 effective  is  garlic  oil  but  it's  not  as 
 good  a  long-term  solution  as  improving 
 the  soil  and  addressing  it  with  worm 
 Gold  Plus  as  with  most  test  problems 
 it's  not  absolutely  necessary  that  your 
 garden  be  entirely  free  of  aphid  and 
 white  fly  a  little  bit  here  and  there 
 isn't  going  to  hurt  anything  in  fact 
 many  excellent  gardeners  consider  it  a 
 plus  because  it  can  attract  beneficials 
 like  ladybugs  and  parasitic  wasps  which 
 brings  up  a  point  of  why  we're  doing 
 organic  control  of  aphid  and  white  fly 
 we  not  only  want  to  not  damage  the  soil 
 but  we  also  don't  want  to  damage  the 
 ecosystem  because  in  many  cases 
 including  this  one  one  of  the  best  ways 
 to  control  aphid  and  whitefly  is  with 
 beneficials  we  don't  want  to  be  damaging 
 those  which  a  lot  of  chemical  products 
 do  and  so  you  end  up  with  this  kind  of 
 antiseptic 
 ecosystem  grubs  SL  Japanese  beetles  it's 
 really  the  same  thing  although  most 
 people  call  them  grubs  although  many 
 people  call  them  Japanese  Beatles  I 
 think  this  might  be  right  up  there  with 
 one  of  the  most  asked  questions  is  grubs 
 in  their  lawn  eating  the  roots  there  are 
 ways  of  controlling  grubs  and 
 eradicating  grubs  that  are  good  for  the 
 soil  and  that's  what  we  want  to  do  we 
 want  to  continue  to  build  the  soil  one 
 that  is  a  little  bit  overlooked  is  the 
 beneficial  bacteria  BT  basilis 
 thuringiensis  that's  usually  signified 
 with  a  capital  b  and  a  small  T  and 
 there's  a  lot  of  brands  of  BT  that  you 
 can  buy  but  it's  really  pretty  darn 
 effective  maybe  my  favorite  and  most 
 effective  way  uh  and  also  best  for  the 
 soil  is  beneficial  nematodes  again  and  I 
 like  to  get  them  from  arbo  Organics  does 
 very  good  job  of  long-term  kind  of 
 permanent  uh  control  of  grubs  in 
 Japanese  beetles  also  a  popular  one  that 
 is  used  widely  is  called  milky  spore 
 that's  not  a  brand  that's  a  product  and 
 there  are  a  couple  of  Brands  those  three 
 products  is  what  I  focus  on  not 
 necessarily  all  of  them  but  I  would 
 start  with  the  beneficial  nematodes  and 
 it  might  make  the  other  two 
 necessary  Lily  beetle  is  a  problem  that 
 I  actually  haven't  encountered  here  in 
 central  California  but  uh  many  people 
 have  asked  about  it  one  of  the  most 
 effective  treatment  is  the  beneficial 
 bacteria  based  product  called  spinosad 
 spinosad  is  available  in  several 
 different  products  but  you  you  can 
 search  spinosad  to  kill  Lily  Beetle  and 
 you'll  come  up  with  several  products  um 
 that  I  think  do  a  good  job 
 most  kinds  of  beetles  can  be  eradicated 
 with  basilis  theingi  insis  again  that's 
 the  beneficial  bacteria  that's  not 
 damaging  to  your  soil  it's  an  organic 
 product  in  addition  to  BT  or  basilis 
 theingi  insis  you  can  use  again 
 beneficial  nematodes  and  you  would  apply 
 those  in  early  spring  if  you  know  you're 
 going  to  have  a  problem  of  lots  of 
 different  types  you  can  be  applying 
 beneficial  nematodes  while  you're 
 building  the  soil  in  a  way  that 
 encourages  beneficial 
 nematodes  Rabbits  go  for  squirrels  moles 
 vs  throw  in  a  deer  one  of  the  things  I 
 do  is  search  for  the  scram  products  with 
 the  name  of  the  offender  right  in  front 
 of  a  deer  scram  or  gopher  scram  I've  had 
 good  success  with  it  and  those  scram 
 products  work  by  the  scent  they  repel 
 these  pests  instead  of  Killing  Them 
 obviously  there  are  ways  to  kill  all  of 
 these  things  but  the  scram  products  are 
 one  of  my  favorite  ways  another 
 interesting  thing  specifically  for  vs 
 and  I  don't  know  why  it  only  works  on 
 Vols  but  very  effective  on  voles  is  our 
 nourished  biosol  that's  again  the  scent 
 of  it  plus  you  can  do  a  great  job  of 
 fertilizing  your  soil  and  your  plants 
 you'll  be  spreading  the  products  on  the 
 perimeter  of  these  areas  because  you 
 want  to  try  to  keep  the  offending 
 varmints  out  of  that  area  you  just 
 strategic  in  where  you  put  it  based  on 
 where  you  think  the  animals  are  coming 
 in  or  where  they're  creating  the  problem 
 if  they're  creating  the  problem  in  your 
 vegetable  garden  you  can  apply  it  all 
 around  your  vegetable  garden  have  a 
 common  sense  strategy  session  with 
 yourself  and  determine  where  you  want  to 
 apply  a  lot  of  times  when  we're  in  and 
 out  of  yards  we're  only  applying  them 
 once  many 
 times  chip  what  are  you  barking  at  many 
 times  with  one  application  it  cures  the 
 problem  but  sometimes  I  will  recommend 
 that  it'd  be  reapplied  every  couple  of 
 months  or 
 so  rats  can  be  a  real  problem  there's 
 some  excellent  uh  pepperment  products 
 online  that  you  can  use  as  a  repellent 
 also  a  product  I've  used  with  some 
 success  is  these  ultrasonic  rat 
 repellers  uh  so  you  plug  them  into  an 
 outlet  and  they  emit  an  anti-rat 
 wavelength  that  makes  rats  Scurry  on 
 down  the  block  I  actually  used  that  at 
 my  house  and  um  seemed  to  work  pretty 
 well 
 well  cabbage  worms  are  enir  repel  40 
 works  pretty  well  and  a  BT  billus 
 theingi  insis  which  is  a  beneficial 
 bacteria  works  well  also  and  that's 
 available  in  different  brands 
 unfortunately  the  weekly  application  is 
 probably  going  to  be  necessary  so  if  we 
 neglected  to  mention  your  most  horrible 
 pest  I  put  it  in  the  comments  below  and 
 we  will  address  it  in  a  future 
 video  the  absolute  best  way  I'm  not  even 
 going  to  mention  another  product  because 
 this  is  so  good  at  controlling  and 
 eradicating  thrip  back  to  the  most 
 mentioned  way  to  eradicate  pests  is 
 beneficial  nematodes  those  are  tiny 
 little  microscopic  guys  and  you  put  them 
 in  water  it's  best  to  do  it  late  at 
 night  or  very  early  in  the  morning  where 
 not  exposed  to  a  lot  of  sunlight  and 
 then  you  just  spray  it  on  either  with  a 
 spray  tank  or  hos  in  sprayer  or  whatever 
 you  prefer  that's  my  number  one  uh 
 recommendation  and  I  don't  have  enough 
 one  if  you're  in  climates  like  we  are  in 
 you  might  only  have  to  apply  them  once 
 if  you're  in  climates  with  really  cold 
 weather  cold  weather  can  um  impact  the 
 population  of  beneficial  nematodes  and 
 so  you  might  have  to  reapply  like  early 
 every  spring  what  we're  trying  to  do 
 with  our  whole  program  is  build  soil 
 that  can  maintain  a  level  of  population 
 of  beneficial  nematodes  I  think  people 
 shy  away  from  using  beneficial  nematodes 
 because  of  the  name  and  it  sounds  like 
 uh  something  they  don't  want  because 
 they  could  be  associated  with  the 
 destructive 
 nematodes  so  nothing's  more  frustrating 
 than  having  bad  nematodes  nematodes  that 
 eat  the  roots  of  your  plants  the 
 traditional  ways  of  treating  bad 
 nematodes  is  with  more  and  more  toxic 
 chemicals  and  that  usually  renders  the 
 soil  pretty  much  useless  even  if  you  get 
 rid  of  the  bad  nematodes  it  damages  the 
 soil  so  severely  bad  nematodes  are  best 
 controlled  by  good  nematodes  and  that's 
 why  building  your  soil  with  complex  soil 
 life  is  the  way  to  avoid  bad  nematodes 
 all  our  products  that's  the  whole  point 
 is  we're  going  to  build  it  with  life 
 that  can  get  rid  of  the  bad  nematodes 
 good  nematodes  are  are  the  way  to  go  and 
 applying  them  early  morning  late  evening 
 in  water  fairly  easy  process  maybe  as 
 often  as  once  a  year  in  the  early 
 spring  fusa  mites  similar  to  mites  in 
 general  don't  have  a  lot  of  great 
 Organic  Solutions  but  the  best  is  uh 
 insecticidal  soap  which  if  you  search 
 online  insecticidal  soap  is  usually 
 recommended  right  after  water  for  almost 
 everything  it's  considered  you  know  one 
 of  the  most  non-toxic  ways  of  trying  to 
 organically  treat  things  our  Rose  and 
 soil  Defender  works  pretty  well  on 
 fuchsia  mites  also  and  those  are  really 
 my  only  two  recommendations  to  treat 
 them  in  an  organic 
 way  usually  ants  aren't  a  primary 
 problem  they're  a  secondary  problem 
 problem  they  are  a  problem  because  they 
 eat  say  the  waste  of  aphid  or  the  waste 
 of  white  flies  or  the  waste  of  other 
 insects  if  you  get  rid  of  the  aphid  and 
 the  white  fly  and  other  problem  insects 
 usually  the  ants  will  go  away  so  that's 
 that  should  be  the  first  thing  you  try 
 to  see  what  you  think  the  ants  are 
 feeding  on  the  waste  of  what  and  then 
 get  rid  of  that  problem  if  you  can't 
 figure  out  what  they're  feeding  on  and 
 why  they're  there  you  can  use  spinosad 
 which  is  a  beneficial  bacteria  also  I've 
 had  a  lot  of  experience  using  our  envir 
 repel  40  you  know  we've  got  a  number  of 
 things  in  there  but  we've  got  lots  of 
 garlic  in  there  and  that  is  an  excellent 
 way  to  kill  ants  when  I'm  trying  to  kill 
 ants  with  our  enviral  repel  40  I  use  a 
 strong  mixture  of  it  I  go  a  little 
 beyond  the  label  rate  and  it  does  a  good 
 job  not  only  killing  them  but  I  don't 
 see  a 
 return  slugs  along  with  slugs  is  snails 
 sometimes  they're  considered  the  same 
 the  most  common  way  which  is  not  a  bad 
 way  I  in  my  opinion  is  the  product 
 Sluggo  which  is  omry  approved  and 
 organic  and  you  know  non  unharmful  for 
 pets  if  you  research  slugs  there's  a 
 whole  controversial  Aura  surrounding 
 them  because  a  slug  here  and  there  is 
 kind  of  like  an  aphid  here  and  there  not 
 necessarily  bad  it  feeds  part  of  what 
 you  want  to  feed  to  have  an  effective 
 well-rounded  ecosystem  so  it's  not  like 
 we  want  to  kill  every  slug  but  when 
 slugs  start  to  be  destructive  they're 
 eating  all  your  plants  then  you  have  to 
 do  something  so  to  find  a  slug  here  and 
 there  I  would  probably  ignore  it  so  the 
 first  line  of  defense  with  most  people 
 is  Sluggo  which  is  you  know  widely 
 available  and  easy  to  find  and  easy  to 
 apply  but  there's  another  solution  that 
 it  works  probably  better  than  Sluggo  and 
 that's  back  to  beneficial  nematodes  now 
 it  takes  a  certain  species  so  you  have 
 to  research  the  species  of  beneficial 
 nematode  specifically  for  Slugs  some 
 people  in  their  Garden  are  just 
 overridden  with  slugs  in  a  way  that 
 makes  gardening  impossible  and  in  that 
 case  I  think  the  beneficial  nematodes 
 are  the  way  to  go  if  you  have  a  slightly 
 higher  than  normal  amount  of  slugs  that 
 are  doing  marginal  damage  the  slugo  is 
 probably  a  good  way  to  go  if  you  have 
 very  little  damage  then  I'd  leave  this 
 slugs  be  and  not  worry  about  them  there 
 used  to  be  a  man  here  in  Fresno  who  is 
 deceased  now  but  he  used  to  raise  snails 
 and  go  and  be  available  to  go  in 
 people's  Gardens  and  pull  out  the  snails 
 and  it  was  part  of  his  process  of 
 raising  snails  and  he  sold  snails  to 
 restaurants  as  escaro  and  did  different 
 creative  things  with  snails  and  uh  he 
 said  that  there's  certain  music  that 
 snails  like  what  he  told  me  is  their 
 favorite  song  of  his  snails  was  I  Just 
 Called  to  Say  I  Love  You  by  Stevie 
 Wonder  so  if  you  don't  want  snails  I'd 
 say  don't  play  that  song  so  Chip  and  I 
 have  concluded  our  uh  video  on  organic 
 treatment  for  pests  and  we  hope  you 
 liked  it  please  like  it  if  you  did  and 
 subscribe  if  you're  not  already 
 subscribed  and  encourage  other  people  to 
 watch  our  videos  and  we  just  want  to  say 
 we  love 
 [Music] 
 you  that's  the  parts  the  snails  really 
 like  SS  just  need  a  little  love 
 yeah  why  are  we  killing 
 [Music] 
 him  as  you  might  imagine  Ralph  was  a 
 character

---

 we're  going  to  talk  about  vegetable 
 gardening  maybe  in  2025  you've  made  that 
 one  of  your  goals  I'm  eating  this 
 delicious  arugula  which  is  surprisingly 
 fantastic  you  can  eat  it  raw  right  out 
 of  the  garden  I'm  John  Valentino 
 president  of  JN  and  Bob's  Corporation  we 
 like  to  make  soil  healthy  this  is  Chip 
 Valentino  we're  both  here  at  this 
 Kingsburg  vegetable  garden  made  out  of 
 ctin  steel  I  have  been  involved  in 
 building  Gardens  and  vegetable  gardens 
 and  Landscapes  this  will  be  my  46th  year 
 maybe  that  makes  me  sound  old  but  chip 
 and  I  are  trying  to  maintain  our 
 youthful  appearance  for  vegetable 
 gardening  you've  got  a  few  decisions  to 
 make  exposure  first  of  all  mostly  full 
 sun  or  a  lot  of  sun  uh  that's  what  most 
 vegetables  need  here  there's  tremendous 
 sun  exposure  and  then  you  want  to  decide 
 if  you  want  to  grow  an  erased  planter 
 which  are  more  expensive  but  are  really 
 nice  to  Garden  in  because  of  the  quality 
 of  the  soil  and  proximity  to  your  height 
 uh  so  you  don't  have  to  been  down  a  lot 
 if  you  want  to  do  a  large  garden  it's 
 much  more  cost  effective  to  do  it  in  the 
 ground  and  maybe  you  already  have  great 
 soil  and  so  in  the  ground  isn't  going  to 
 be  a  problem  but  we'll  help  you  make 
 that  Successful  by  prescribing  for  you 
 soil  improving  products  in  addition  to 
 doing  raised  beds  out  of  ctin  steel  you 
 can  do  just  regular  containers  that  can 
 be  very  effective  also  you  can  grow 
 tomatoes  in  a  relatively  small  15g 
 container  as  you  can  see  from  the  in 
 these  raised  ctin  Planters  they  can  be 
 attractive  but  they  can  also  have  their 
 downside  visually  so  you  need  to  use  a 
 little  bit  of  good  judgment  as  far  as 
 what  you  want  to  see  in  your  garden  and 
 what  you  want  to  be  prominent  or  not 
 prominent  so  a  typical  thing  to  do  with 
 vegetable  garden  plots  is  to  kind  of  put 
 them  off  to  one  side  or  another  and 
 maybe  have  plantings  around  it  that  are 
 complimentary  this  looks  pretty  darn 
 good  but  you  need  to  consider  that 
 sometimes  in  between  crops  it's  not  that 
 attractive  so  our  topic  today  is  the 
 vegetable  Garden  but  if  you're 
 interested  in  landscaping  in  general  we 
 just  posted  several  videos  on  how  to 
 plan  and  then  begin  to  implement  that 
 there's  a  background  screening  shrub 
 behind  it  which  you  can't  really  see 
 it's  a  dwarf  Bay  Tree  essentially  and 
 you  can  use  bay  leaves  in  cooking  and 
 the  cultivar  of  this  is  reflective  of 
 that  it's  called  Little  Ragu  the  other 
 reason  I  like  it  as  a  screen  since  its 
 growth  is  controlled  we  don't  have  to 
 hack  at  it  as  it  gets  bigger  we  can  let 
 it  grow  look  at  its  natural  form  it 
 never  would  get  taller  than  this  top  of 
 this  block  wall  it'll  probably  at  full 
 size  be  a  little  U  lower  than  that  so  if 
 you're  planting  your  spring  and  summer 
 crops  and  you  want  to  plant  something 
 now  to  uh  fill  in  these  spaces  then  you 
 can  plant  herbs  any  of  the  herbs  would 
 be  good  maybe  even  you  could  find  some 
 strawberries  strawberries  would  work 
 even  though  it's  a  little  early  things 
 like  lettuce  and  spinach  those  are  all 
 pretty  fast  maturing  plants  that  I  think 
 you  could  plant  and  harvest  prior  to 
 when  it's  time  to  plant  the  summer  crops 
 you  can  plant  crops  so  you  have 
 something  delicious  and  nutritious  to 
 eat  all  year  round  depending  on  where 
 you  live  not  maybe  not  in  Michigan  but 
 or  Minnesota  but  in  warm  climates  that's 
 very  doable  a  lot  of  the  crops  in  mild 
 climates  like  ours  you  can  just  vary  the 
 planting  dates  a  quick  example  radishes 
 you  know  if  you  plant  some  radishes 
 every  30  days  in  relatively  warm  weather 
 they're  they  can  germinate  and  be  ready 
 to  harvest  in  30  days  you  wait  and  plant 
 a  few  every  30  days  you'll  have  radishes 
 all  the  time  it's  warm  same  thing  with 
 lettuces  and  um  spinach  there  could  have 
 already  been  those  planted  earlier  in 
 the  year  and  then  you  could  plant  some 
 now  and  you  could  go  all  through  the 
 winter  producing  your  own  greens 
 planting  is  fairly  simple  and  it's 
 similar  to  planting  plants  you  don't 
 want  to  bury  it  too  deeply  you  want  to 
 water  it  right  after  you  plant  it  you 
 want  to  make  sure  you're  planting  it  at 
 a  time  where  inclement  weather  that's 
 upcoming  isn't  going  to  impact  it  for 
 instance  you  wouldn't  plant  citrus  in 
 the  middle  of  the  winter  even  if  you're 
 in  a  mild  winter  area  because  it's 
 sensitive  right  after  planting  and  you 
 could  get  a  frost  that  would  impact  them 
 more  negatively  the  onions  the  garlic 
 the  herbs  the  Swiss  chard  the  beets  the 
 arugula  the  potatoes  everything's  being 
 watered  the  same  this  is  adjacent  to 
 landscape  planting  we  separate  ated 
 these  three  Planters  to  be  on  their  own 
 valve  on  their  own  station  so  that  you 
 can  water  the  vegetables  in  your  yard 
 separately  the  number  of  days  the  amount 
 of  time  is  going  to  be  different  than 
 any  of  the  plants  in  the  garden  in  a 
 raise  situation  the  soil  is  probably 
 going  to  be  lighter  than  your  native 
 soil  they'll  be  different  uh  watering 
 times  and  watering  days  try  to  set  up 
 your  irrigation  system  where  you 
 separate  the  vegetable  garden  from 
 anything  else  more  water  more  weeds  this 
 is  such  a  tight  area  and  we're  growing 
 all  kinds  of  things  together  we  just 
 water  this  whole  rectangle  but  say 
 you're  in  the  ground  then  you  could  just 
 water  the  individual  plants  and  not  put 
 water  everywhere  when  you  put  water 
 everywhere  you  have  more  weig  pressures 
 mulch  helps  tremendously  the  owner  in 
 this  one  did  a  neat  thing  he  used 
 earthworm  castings  as  his  Mulch  and 
 that's  a  really  good  mulch  and  maybe  a 
 corser  mulch  would  do  a  little  more  in 
 terms  of  weed  discouraging  you  know 
 Mulch  and  pulling  weeds  combination  over 
 time  is  tremendously  effective  at  weed 
 control  might  be  a  little  discouraging 
 in  the  beginning  because  if  you  think 
 I'm  going  to  put  on  this  mulch  as  soon 
 as  you  put  on  the  mulch  you  start  seeing 
 weeds  and  you  think  it's  not  working 
 well  it  will  work  but  it's  a 
 long-term  very  soil  beneficial  process  I 
 mean  that's  tremendous  for  soil  is  to 
 use  mulch  on  top  and  then  mechanically 
 get  rid  of  the  weeds  by  pulling  or  light 
 hoing  or  something  and  continue  to  mulch 
 continue  to  make  it  so  you  always  have 
 like  a  2in  layer  there  the  other  thing 
 that  discourages  weeds  encourages  less 
 weeds  is  really  healthy  soil  soil  that's 
 bacterial  dominated  and  not  so  healthy 
 and  not  so  advanced  in  terms  of 
 microbiology  has  more  weeds  and  so  we 
 want  to  develop  the  life  in  the  soil 
 Beyond  just  bacteria  we  want  fungi  and 
 protozoa  and  good  nematodes  and  those 
 more  highly  developed  soils  have  less 
 weeds  what  we  try  to  do  is  feed  them  our 
 products  or  good  quality  compost  or 
 earthworm  castings  those  kinds  of 
 products  encourage  complex  life  and  it's 
 that  complex  life  that  not  only  allows 
 plants  to  grow  and  produce  their  best 
 but  it  allows  soil  to  not  host  as  many 
 weeds  but  the  more  water  the  more 
 nitrogen  those  things  might  make  weeds 
 grow  particularly  in  soil  that  isn't 
 welldeveloped  healthy  soil  is  the  most 
 important  part  of  a  successful  vegetable 
 garden  actually  successful  flowers  and 
 successful  plants  of  all  kinds  if  you're 
 using  soil  that  has  lots  of  microbiology 
 then  you're  producing  food  that's  much 
 more  nutrient-dense  and  that  is  a 
 problem  with  today's  soils  they're  less 
 microbiologically  active  and  so  a  lot  of 
 the  crops  are  less  nutrient  dense  I  do 
 that  and  I'm 
 95  and  look  at  me  pretty  good  huh  no 
 Botox  yet  for  no  Botox  yet  but  when  I 
 hit  a  100  I  might  need  it  chip  has  had 
 no  B  Botox  either  and  he  doesn't  have  a 
 wrinkle  an  important  part  of  growing  in 
 raised  Planters  or  pots  is  the  quality 
 of  what  you  use  as  the  potting  soil  in 
 this  case  we  made  our  own  potting  soil 
 and  you  can  refer  to  a  prior  video  we 
 did  where  we  give  the  recipe  for  making 
 your  own  potting  soil  you  can  also  buy  a 
 pre-made  one  like  black  gold  with  either 
 of  those  black  gold  or  when  you  make 
 your  own  a  big  part  of  that  is  our 
 products  that  uh  we  recommend  so  the 
 maximize  the  optimize  the  nourish  biosol 
 and  the  penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller  we 
 used  all  of  those  things  and  then  as  I 
 said  the  owner  added  earthworm  castings 
 which  he  had  a  good  local  source  for 
 here  and  that's  a  really  powerful 
 combination  that's  a  sure  fire  success 
 raised  beds  or  pots  you  need  to  apply 
 more  amendments  SL  fertilizers  than  you 
 would  in  the  ground  the  water  leeches 
 through  faster  and  leeches  the  soil 
 faster  if  we've  been  helpful  to  you  and 
 maybe  inspirational  to  you  to  grow 
 vegetables  and  produce  some  of  your  own 
 food  which  is  a  neat  thing  to  do  then 
 keep  watching  our  videos  we'll  keep 
 talking  about  it  subscribe  and  like  the 
 video  and  tell  all  your  friends  to  watch 
 it  we  need  more  views  and  we'll  keep 
 trying  to  uh  help  all  of  you  grow 
 healthy  nutritious  food  this  Garden  has 
 a  pineapple  guava  you  could  grow 
 pineapple  guava  they  have  one  in  a  pot 
 these  are  all  semi-  dwarf  Citrus  in  more 
 raised  um  ctin  Planters  with  rosemary 
 underneath  obviously  the  Rosemary  you 
 can  use  in 
 cooking  and  it  smells  fantastic  a 
 Satsuma  mandarin  orange  some  people  call 
 them  Tangerine  that's  a  Cara  Cara  orange 
 that's  that  real  nice  pink  one  this  is  a 
 bear's  lime  and  so  all  of  those  don't 
 get  real  big  you  could  use  a  grapefruit 
 or  a  big  lemon  but  we  like  picking  these 
 smaller  ones  um  that  aren't  going  to  get 
 too  huge  and  then  we're  have  one  that's 
 struggling  here  this  is  a  Meer  lemon 
 we're  not  sure  why  it  doesn't  look  good 
 but  we're  working  with  it  it  has  the 
 same  treatment  as  all  the  rest  kind  of 
 defoliated  and  got  chlorotic  looking  I 
 think  that'll  change  dramatically  in  the 
 spring  cuz  the  soil's  very  healthy  so 
 we're  hoping  we  get  into  March  and  April 
 and  this  will  turn  around  in  the 
 meantime  we're  just  trying  to  make  sure 
 it  gets  watered  properly

---

 so  we're  talking  landscape  design  today 
 and  you  can  look  back  on  prior  videos 
 first  we  did  a  site  survey  and  then  we 
 did  bubble  diagrams  we're  trying  to  walk 
 you  through  the  process  of  designing 
 your  own  landscape  your  own  garden  then 
 the  next  step  which  we'll  talk  about 
 today  is  to  go  from  the  bubble  diagrams 
 to  real  forms  and  real  circulation  and 
 real  spaces  and  this  is  prior  to  a 
 planting  plan  prior  to  a  lighting  plan 
 chip  and  I  are  at  our  new  house  and  this 
 house  is  modeled  after  the  matthewson 
 home  which  was  built  in  1915  in  the 
 Berkeley  Hills  on  this  step  what  we 
 would  be  figuring  is  exactly  the  shape 
 of  the  driveway  exactly  the  shape  of  the 
 circulation  we  only  have  half  of  the 
 circulation  in  here  because  we're 
 leaving  space  so  that  we  can  build  that 
 lap  pool  which  is  coming  later  we're 
 designing  the  wall  we're  designing  all 
 the  spaces  when  we  walk  around  you'll 
 see  we're  designing  the  patios  off  of 
 the  house  and  the  exact  location  of  the 
 arbor  I  don't  know  that  you  can  really 
 describe  how  you  do  it  other  than  you 
 try  to  do  all  the  preparation  to  lead 
 you  into  this  going  from  Bubble  diagrams 
 to  real  forms  and  creating  space  which 
 is  really  what  landscape  design  is  about 
 is  creating  space  I  think  one  thing  is 
 to  Dy  try  to  be  very  straightforward  if 
 you  know  where  people  want  to  park 
 there's  not  much  mystery  to  that  we  need 
 to  be  in  front  of  the  house  and  close  as 
 we  can  get  to  that  front  gate  maybe  one 
 big  rectangle  you  know  you  ask  a 
 difficult  question  how  do  you  figure  out 
 the  exact  lines  well  it's  not  like  this 
 is  the  only  design  that  would  work  or 
 look  good  there's  lots  of  designs  but 
 what  we're  trying  to  do  is  put  enough 
 preparation  into  knowing  what  we  want 
 having  some  rules  in  terms  of  Simplicity 
 and  it  being  coordinated  and  then  kind 
 of  letting  the  process  unfold  and  I 
 think  you  might  be  surprised  what  you 
 can  come  up  with  even  if  you  lack  some 
 creativity  this  is  the  closest  that 
 house  could  be  to  the  road  so  one  of  the 
 issues  when  the  house  is  set  is  there's 
 a  setback  so  we  have  to  set  it  back  a 
 certain  amount  if  we  had  our  preference 
 we  would  put  it  much  closer  to  the 
 street  so  that  we  can  have  a  more  useful 
 backyard  and  by  doing  that  then  we've 
 got  a  lot  of  space  in  the  front  a  big 
 part  of  our  side  analysis  and  of  our 
 bubble  diagrams  is  figuring  out  how  we 
 can  use  this  space  productively  and 
 we're  standing  right  in  the  middle  of  it 
 so  one  important  way  to  use  it  is  we 
 have  parking  where  we  used  a  really 
 interesting  Rock  and  we  embedded  it  into 
 decomposed  granite  and  it's  not  cemented 
 or  anything  and  so  water  will  go  through 
 it  and  then  obviously  the  driveway  we 
 have  a  sliding  gate  we  built  a  wall  that 
 has  an  interesting  design  to  it  you  can 
 still  see  through  it  you  can  see  we  have 
 areas  for  chip  to  look  out  by  having  a 
 wall  we  create  those  spaces  on  the  other 
 side  of  the  wall  that  can  be  used 
 traditionally  how  a  backyard  would  be 
 used  and  that's  kind  of  necessary 
 because  we  have  such  limited  space  and 
 we  have  a  big  long  lap  pool  to  put  in  on 
 the  side  a  straight  line  or  very  direct 
 practical  lines  are  better  than  saying 
 well  I  need  to  be  creative  here  so  I'm 
 going  to  have  this  wrap  around  here  and 
 have  this  curly  Cube  and  you  know  that's 
 not  really  creativity  I  don't  I  don't 
 think  I  think  it's  good  to  be  aware  that 
 a  straight  line  can  serve  you  very  well 
 when  we  walk  through  this  you'll  see 
 there's  lots  of  straight  lines  here  and 
 that's  not  saying  that  you  couldn't  have 
 a  more  free  form  design  and  have  it  be 
 very  simple  and  attractive  also  but  we 
 thought  this  house  lent  itself  well  to 
 straight  lines  the  jog  in  this  fence 
 line  corresponds  with  creating  a  usable 
 Courtyard  between  the  house  and  the 
 fence  and  so  if  you're  aware  I  want  to 
 create  usable  Courtyards  then  you  have  a 
 prompt  that's  going  to  prompt  you  to 
 have  a  fence  that's  more  than  just  a 
 simple  straight  line  This  is  why  it  is 
 very  important  to  watch  the  first  two 
 videos  it's  the  information  in  the  first 
 two  videos  that  are  relatively  easy  to 
 come  up  with  and  put  on  paper  that  make 
 the  creative  process  much  simpler  and 
 kind  of  draws  that  creativity  out  of  you 
 I  think  this  is  an  East  exposure  which 
 is  nice  for  sitting  in  certain  times  of 
 the  day  lots  of  things  could  go  on  here 
 we're  going  to  have  benches  here  mainly 
 for  seating  and  also  a  main  view  out  of 
 the  house  straight  through  to  the  Main 
 Street  the  form  of  it  is  a  very  simple 
 and  lens  to  the  function  of  a  simple 
 Courtyard  with  visual  access  to  the 
 street  and  yet  still  maintaining  quite  a 
 bit  of  privacy  we're  trying  to  Simply 
 get  to  the  front  door  so  that's  what's 
 on  our  minds  this  walkway  very  simply 
 with  straight  lines  goes  to  the  front 
 door  and  this  is  the  only  pedestrian 
 entrance  to  the  house  from  the  street 
 but  it's  a  very  simple  circulation 
 pattern  and  then  it  leads  to  this 
 Courtyard  which  is  off  of  these  large 
 french  doors  and  has  an  arbor  this  is  a 
 North  exposure  we  planned  this  Arbor 
 which  is  going  to  have  vines  on  on  it 
 and  you  can  see  this  wire  is  going  to 
 have  uh  fans  and  lights  if  you  want  to 
 see  the  lighting  and  the  planting  plans 
 that's  our  next  step  so  make  sure  you 
 subscribe  in  terms  of  the  design  the 
 shape  of  this  would  be  designed  now  the 
 arbor  would  be  at  least  in  a  plan  form 
 designed  where  it's  going  to  occur 
 because  you're  putting  forms  to  the 
 bubbles  and  so  now  you  want  to  see  where 
 this  Arbor  is  going  to  be  the  only  way 
 to  do  that  is  work  on  this  space  all  at 
 the  same  time  so  even  though  you're 
 you're  working  on  circulation  a  pool  is 
 got  circulation  too  around  it  so  you 
 would  be  uh  setting  in  the  pool  at  this 
 time  again  if  you  did  your  work  in  Parts 
 one  and  two  you  kind  of  know  where  it 
 has  to  be  because  we've  identified  that 
 we  absolutely  want  it  75  ft  long  and 
 there's  not  many  places  on  this  site 
 that  you  could  fit  it  in  75  ft  long  at 
 the  same  time  you're  doing  the 
 circulation  and  patio  you're  designing 
 the  pool  and  and  designing  the 
 relationship  between  these  outdoor 
 spaces  and  the  pool  so  that's  all  coming 
 together  at  the  same  time  you  know  this 
 is  a  bathroom  window  which  has  the  type 
 of  window  that  you  can't  see  through  but 
 if  the  light  is  on  in  the  bathroom  and 
 it's  dark  outside  and  you  and  you  and 
 you  try  to  look  through  you  can  see  a 
 little  bit  so  it's  probably  a  good  idea 
 to  do  some  kind  of  screening  we  would 
 have  identified  on  our  site  analysis 
 that  we  want  to  screen  these  window 
 window  you  can  see  what  we  came  up  with 
 uh  that  wouldn't  have  been  done  until 
 the  planting  plan  but  at  least  we  would 
 identify  that  we  need  to  make  a  space 
 for  plants  right  in  front  of  the 
 bathroom  Windows  the  part  of  the  design 
 that  we're  working  on  right  now  is  the 
 circulation  which  continues  very  simply 
 so  all  this  circulation  in  the  back 
 would  be  designed  now  along  with  these 
 spaces  that  we're  creating  so  there 
 little  Courtyards  off  of  the  master 
 bedroom  that  would  be  designed  right  now 
 a  courtyard  off  of  the  guest  bedroom 
 this  is  going  to  be  my  little  miniature 
 onen  which  is  what  you  find  in  Japan  is 
 they're  like  mineral  baths  so  that  would 
 have  to  be  identified  with  the 
 circulation  because  the  Onsen  has  to 
 have  access  you  got  to  know  where  it's 
 going  to  be  another  couryard  behind  the 
 guest  house  when  you  design  a  courtyard 
 you  probably  have  in  mind  where  you're 
 going  to  use  things  like  pots  and 
 furniture  and  this  uh  circulation  leads 
 to  the  other  side  of  the  house  where  we 
 have  another  Courtyard  area  so  you're 
 designing  the  space  off  of  the  sliding 
 glass  window  so  that  would  have  been 
 identified  in  the  in  the  side  analysis 
 while  you're  doing  the  circulation  we 
 know  we  want  a  better  screen  for  the 
 Neighbors  here  and  one  simple  way  to  do 
 that  is  with  a  welded  wire  fence  and 
 then  grow  vines  on  it  you  could  identify 
 that  at  this  stage  we've  got  a  pizza 
 oven  I've  yet  to  use  it  but 
 um  I'm  getting  ready  to  try  it  maybe  on 
 Christmas  Eve 
 you  know  it's  not  like  everything  is 
 perfectly  planned  out  for  a  long  time  I 
 thought  I  was  going  to  put  this  pizza 
 oven  in  a  different  spot  I  was  going  to 
 put  it  over  there  next  to  the  driveway 
 but  it  made  it  too  difficult  to  drive  in 
 and  out  without  hitting  the  pizza  oven 
 so  we  didn't  have  it  well  planned  out  on 
 the  plan  if  you  can  plan  it  out  and  have 
 it  on  your  plan  and  everybody's  happy 
 with  the  location  that  is  the  way  to  do 
 it  so  not  all  parts  of  the  design  always 
 work  we're  always  evaluating  it  as  we 
 begin  to  install  it  and  uh  you  can 
 change  things  in  the  field  the  way  the 
 fence  was  designed  is  to  make  it  look 
 like  an  extension  of  the  architecture  of 
 the  house  and  so  we  used  the  board  and 
 batten  and  we  use  the  exact  same  plaster 
 which  is  called  a  mission  style  finish 
 it  is  an  attempt  to  coordinate 
 everything  together  so  you  look  it  looks 
 like  the  fence  is  part  of  the  house  it 
 gives  a  coordination  to  the  whole  site 
 as  you're  designing  the  fencing  you 
 would  be  thinking  about  the  materials 
 and  as  you're  designing  the  circulation 
 you're  thinking  about  the  materials  you 
 can  see  in  our  circulation  we  have  two 
 materials  Palamino  colored  concrete  with 
 a  broom  finish  and  a  lot  of  score  joints 
 and  then  the  courtyard  off  of  the  family 
 room  we  used  the  same  tile  that's  inside 
 the  house  so  that  it  looks  like  an 
 extension  of  the  house  and  that's  again 
 attempting  to  expand  the  house  out  into 
 the  garden  so  that's  our  third  part 
 where  we  went  from  analyzing  the  site 
 and  your  needs  and  your  goals  turning 
 that  into  bubble  diagrams  now  into 
 actually  starting  to  draw  the  forms  that 
 your  garden  is  going  to  utilize  if  you 
 liked  it  please  like  it  we've  got  two  or 
 three  more  coming  up  planting  design  and 
 lighting  design

---

 chip  and  I  are  at  our  new  house  our  home 
 is  mostly  finished  chip  and  I  are  going 
 to  show  you  including  some  parts  of  the 
 inside  this  is  a  Christmas  video  and 
 we're  on  Christmas  Tree  Lane  here  in 
 Fresno  we're  going  to  show  you  the 
 Christmas  lights  if  you'll  stick  around 
 to  the  end  of  our 
 video  okay  chip  you  ready  to  start  the 
 tour  this  is  the  parking  area  and  kind 
 of  the  main  circulation  so  you  would 
 park  your  car  here 
 or  you  would  drive  right  into  the  garage 
 if  you're  us  and  right  through  that 
 automatic  gate  then  you  would  come  to 
 this  bench  which  we  can  sit  and  look  at 
 the  lights  contemplate  the  beauty  of  the 
 place  take  a  slight  Jog  and  we're  headed 
 to  the  entry  pedestrian  gate  so  one  side 
 we  have  a  little  inter  Courtyard  that 
 has  a  great  eastern  exposure  it's  going 
 to  have  benches  right  now  it  doesn't 
 have  much  as  you  might  be  aware  if  you 
 build  a  house  there's  all  kinds  of  stuff 
 that  isn't  complete  but  we  completed 
 enough  to  move  in  and  so  we're  living 
 here  now  we'll  be  working  on  completion 
 of  everything  around  us  you  see  a  lot  of 
 dirt  as  you  watch  this  video  and  all 
 that  dirt  is  going  to  have  something  in 
 it  other  than  dirt  eventually  but  um  we 
 have  a  big  lap  pool  here  that  has  yet  to 
 go  in  our  Courtyard  outside  of  the 
 family  room  isn't  complete  but  we're 
 beginning  to  get  furniture  and  we  got 
 the  arbor  in  and  it'll  have  lights  and 
 fans  and  now  we're  right  at  the  front 
 door 
 so  maybeck's  houses  have  a  lot  of  wood 
 our  house  has  a  lot  of  wood  on  the 
 interior  the  floors  a  lot  of  the  floors 
 are  wallnut  there's  a  porcelain  tile  in 
 all  the  most  heavily  used  parts  of  the 
 houses  the  kitchens  and  the  bathrooms 
 but  uh  very  few  variation  in  flooring 
 material  it's  either  Walnut  flooring  or 
 the  porcelain  tile  the  ceilings  are  made 
 of  old  growth  Redwood  from  a  building 
 built  in  1904  and  all  of  the  wood  is  old 
 wood  the  Douglas  fur  that  makes  up  the 
 arch  separating  the  dining  room  and  the 
 living  room  the  hand  railing  on  the 
 stairs  is  mahogany  with  W  inlaid  which 
 wi  is  a  African  wood  that's  very  dark 
 that  same  combination  is  used  on  the 
 fireplace  wood  it's  an  electric 
 fireplace  that's  uh  used  as  mist  and  uh 
 it  does  have  a  heater  tube  and  pretty 
 dramatic  lighting  with  a  neat  fixture 
 over  the  dining  room  the  lights  that  go 
 all  around  in  the  dining  room  and  the 
 living  room  are  made  from  uh  Tequila 
 bottles  and  the  Secret  Door  we  can  go 
 directly  into  the  prep  kitchen  from 
 here  and  then  it  you  can't  tell  that 
 there's  a  door  there  dramatic  windows  in 
 the  whole  thing  which  you  could  see  from 
 the  outside  really  makes  growing  plants 
 quite  productive  inside  the  house 
 because  the  lighting  is  so  fantastic  and 
 so  I'm  trying  something  that  isn't  that 
 easy  to  do  but  I  think  it's  working  and 
 that's  to  grow  black  bamboo  inside  and 
 so  I  have  these  black  bamboo  that  I  want 
 to  get  much  bigger  I  have  three  of  them 
 I  think  because  of  the  light  which  is 
 just  spectacular  in  here  it'll  be  a 
 success  I'm  growing  four  Ming  aelas 
 there  which  is  kind  of  a  entrance 
 balcony  there  which  is  an  interesting  uh 
 design  technique  quite  a  contrast 
 between  that  low  ceiling  and  then  it 
 opens  up  into  these  soaring  spectacular 
 ceilings  that's  very  dramatic  this 
 design  under  the  handrail  is  a  Maybeck 
 design  that  you'll  see  in  a  lot  of  his 
 buildings  kind  of  a  Swiss  Chalet  design 
 he  called  it  butterfly  we  come  up  to  the 
 second  floor  which  is  relatively  small 
 it  just  has  my  office  and  a  guest 
 bedroom  and  a  bathroom  this  is  my  office 
 not  at  all  uh  cleaned  up  for  the  video 
 overlooks  the  family  room  the  old  growth 
 Redwood  ceiling  goes  throughout  most  of 
 the  house  even  goes  into  the  bathroom  we 
 have  the  Ming  aelas  here  and  a  Buddhist 
 altar  that  was  in  Donna's  family  that 
 we've  chosen  to  put  in  this  location 
 opens  up  into  another  soaring  space 
 which  is  the  family  room  overlooked  by 
 my  office  these  are  kind  of  unique  these 
 big  double  French  doors  we  can  open  both 
 uh  French  doors  kind  of  a  spectacular 
 view  out  of  the  family  room  into  where 
 would  be  our  outdoor  space  and  out  to 
 the  pool  which  doesn't  exist  yet  when 
 the  screen  is  up  then  these  doors  fully 
 open  out  into  the  courtyard  with  the 
 arbor  over  it  which  is  right  off  of  our 
 family 
 room  and  then  adjacent  to  the  family 
 room  the  kitchen  red  cabinets  that  match 
 the  front  door  and  the  soap  stone 
 countertops  has  the  same  old  growth 
 Redwood  ceilings  a  big  island  with  our 
 Christmas  tree  these  cool  lights  we 
 found  uh  actually  in  Berkeley  there's 
 not  much  I  know  about  them  other  than  we 
 like  the  way  they  look  this  is  actually 
 a  cool  top  so  my  wife  can  make  her  ice 
 cream  sandwiches  kind  of  similar  to  if 
 you  go  to  um  Coldstone  that's  a  la  coru 
 oven  it's  electric  and  so  it's  induction 
 cook  top  really  heavy  oven 
 door  thank  you  for  watching  happy 
 holidays  to  all  of  our  viewers  we  hope 
 you  can  recruit  more  viewers  we  want  to 
 build  a  bigger  Channel  and  we  hope  to 
 help  you  in  your  Landscaping  and 
 Gardening  we'll  see  you  in  2025 
 [Music]

---

 we're  going  to  sample  this  soil  and  see 
 how  it's  doing  sample  the  yeah  I  think 
 the  these  might  be  pretty  good  this 
 front  yard  features  only  Naval  oranges 
 and  then  there's  some  other  Citrus  on 
 the  inside  of  the  gate  which  we'll  look 
 at  okay  yeah  John  let's  take  samples 
 from  three  trees  and  kind  of  get  a  good 
 idea  for  the  how  the  whole  Grove  is 
 doing 
 okay  these  are  just  regular  size  Naval 
 oranges  they're  not  even  dwarf  but  he 
 prunes  them  once  a  year  pretty 
 dramatically  in  order  to  make  them  easy 
 to  pick  naval  orange  will  get  30  ft  tall 
 and  30t  wide  if  you  let  it  this  one 
 looks  pretty  healthy  yeah  let's  get  in 
 right  close  to  the  root 
 system  hi  everybody  my  name  is  Shannon 
 um  I  went  to  school  at  cply  slow  for 
 landscape  architecture  I  here  today  to 
 help  John  and  Chip  find  the  Little 
 Critters  that  we've  been  talking  about 
 or  he's  been  talking  about  so  much  in 
 the  soil  I'm  pretty  excited  I  think 
 we're  going  to  find  a  lot  of  a  lot  of 
 Little  Critters  today 
 [Music] 
 I  think  it's  a  really  good  sign  that  we 
 just  found  beneficial  um  fungi  because 
 if  you  think  about  it  all  of  the  soil 
 that's  out  there  from  that  we  took  this 
 amount  and  then  from  this  amount  I  took 
 um  one  dry  milliliter  which  is  like  just 
 a  very  small  amount  on  this  knife  and  I 
 put  it  in  here  and  then  from  here  um  we 
 take  a  pipet  and  from  the  pipet  only  one 
 droplet  of  water  lands  onto  this  slide 
 so  if  you're  seeing  things  that  are 
 beneficial  under  that  one  droplet  of 
 water  it's  really  indicative  of  a  lot  of 
 fungal  hyha  um  activity  because  um  if 
 you  think  about  it  it's  just  the  tiniest 
 tiniest  amount  of  soil  and  that's  pretty 
 that's  pretty  cool  you  might  be 
 surprised  it's  better  than  any  orange 
 you  could  grow  in 
 Minnesota  that's 
 tart  I  did  say  it's  not  quite  right  but 
 it's  good  he  did  warn  me  it  is  good 
 looks  like  a  hash 
 pmen  that  has  that  shape  whereas  the 
 fuyu  is  uh  flat  so  this  is  the  pron  you 
 use  for  making  um  cookies  one  of  these 
 is  a  pink  grapefruit  one's  a  white 
 grapefruit  he's  got  caraka  oranges 
 that's  the  oh  I  love  carera  caraka  is 
 good  and  beautiful  mhm  he's  got  kind  of 
 one  or  two  of  everything  this  might  be 
 that  seedless  lemon  I  think  it  is  that's 
 pretty  darn  healthy  I  don't  know  what 
 that  is  but  it's  something  that  stays 
 small  he  silly  little  guy  huh  some  kind 
 of  line  maybe  if  you  follow  this  road 
 and  and  there's  a  road  on  the  other  side 
 it  takes  you  to  the  house  behind  the 
 house  is  the  river  these  are  uh  Tango 
 tangerines  which  ripen  much  later  he  has 
 some  tangerines  that  ripen  early  if  you 
 want  the  sour  you  could  taste 
 those  I  already  got  my  sour  Phil  thank 
 you  yeah  that's 
 good  come  over  here 
 maybe  yeah  make  sure  you  catch  that 
 that's  good 
 content  so  this  is  under  a  carera  orange 
 and  the  oranges  perform  very  well  so 
 we're  going  to  test  the  life  in  that 
 soil  biology  is  the  key  to  changing  soil 
 not  physical  organic  matter  and  that's 
 why  good  quality  compost  is  so  effective 
 it's  not  because  physically  I  mean  you'd 
 need  to  use  too  much  to  physically 
 change  the  soil  but  but  it's  the  uh 
 biology  that  changes  everything  about 
 the  soil  that's  true  yeah  you  wouldn't 
 change  your  soil  by  adding  a  bunch  of 
 silt  or  a  bunch  of  clay  or  something  you 
 work  with  the  parent  material  you  have 
 and  the  soil  like  texture  you  have  and 
 you  add  biology  and  and  we're  trying  to 
 look  at  the  biology  I  just  found  one  I 
 just  found  one  let's  let's  zoom  in  it 
 I'm  going  to  go  into  100  let's  see  I  got 
 to  focus  on  him  too  I  see  you  see  him  is 
 it  this  yeah  he's  moving  around  in  the 
 corner  there  yeah  yeah  okay  he's  quite 
 uh  agile  yeah  he's  super  agile  it  looks 
 like  he's  feeding  right  now  I'm  going  to 
 zoom  in  even  closer  so  we  can  see  the 
 mouth  Parts  maybe  yeah  look  at  him  go 
 he's  just  squirming  around  you  know  in 
 simple  terms  it  looks  like  an  earthworm 
 yeah  yeah  it  does  and  you  can  kind  of 
 see  the  digestive  but  just  a  very  an 
 usually  active  earthworm  yeah  yeah 
 really  so  here's  the  platinus  race  mosa 
 California  Sycamore  I  think  he  said 
 about  these  are  about  10  years  old  these 
 two  we  just  planted  this  one  it's  a  24in 
 box  and  that  one  there's  quite  a  hard 
 pan  issue  here  and  so  we  used  the  mini 
 excav  excavator  to  break  it  up  and  we 
 dug  a  really  big  hole  and  went  like  I 
 think  10  ft  didn't  we  we're  sure  we  got 
 through  it  and  then  we  used  a  lot  of  our 
 product  you  know  what  we  did  Shannon  is 
 we  went  down  deep  and  there  were 
 distinct  soil  profiles  and  then  we  kind 
 of  mixed  that  up  some  when  we're  digging 
 it  it  looks  like  bad  soil  wow  so  I  don't 
 know  what  we're  going  to  find  but 
 that'll  be  interesting  to  see  cuz  in  my 
 classes  Dr  Ingam  would  say  that  actually 
 roots  and  biology  can  get  really  deep 
 into  the  soil  so  down  through  the  the 
 soil  profile  which  is  kind  of  the 
 section  where  you'll  look  at  soil  and 
 how  it  kind  of  goes  down  to  bedrock  life 
 can  get  down  like  very  very  uh  far  and 
 they  were  showing  us  some  kind  of  case 
 studies  on  that  and  it  was  fascinating 
 so  I  think  you  know  if  you  if  you  put  a 
 bunch  of  um  what  what  did  you  put  on  we 
 put  optimize  maximize  and  nourish  bio 
 salt  we  had  a  basin  which  we  ended  up 
 taking  out  but  we  inside  the  Basin  we 
 used  the  penetrate  I  think  I  mean  I 
 think  if  you  have  a  lot  of  biology  and 
 then  also  with  John's  products  they're 
 there  are  ingredients  that  are  feeding 
 the  biology  too  so  um  like  more  simple 
 sugars  that  are  feeding  the  the  bacteria 
 and  then  also  I  know  humic  acid  is  in 
 one  of  your  products  that  feeds  fungi  um 
 so  it'll  be  really  interesting  to  see  I 
 think  this  tree  will  do  well  though 
 because  of  that  because  you  know  you  mix 
 that  into  the  soil  you  mix  life  into  the 
 soil  and  it  can  go  down  really  really 
 deep  actually  which  is  pretty 
 cool  it  is  probably  an  area  that  he  has 
 thrown  some  stuff  on  you  know  over  the 
 years  cuz  he  says  he  he  does  treat  the 
 whole  property  but  I  don't  think  as  much 
 as  he  puts  it  on  his  Citrus  but  we 
 Disturbed  it  you  know  how  physical  uh 
 disturbance  can  damage  the  life  and  we 
 Disturbed  it  a  lot  um  just  found  an 
 nematode  really  yeah  so  we're  going  to 
 zoom  in  on  this  guy  over  here  and 
 there's  a  lot  of  bacteria  right 
 definitely  a  lot  of  bacteria  yeah  which 
 makes  sense  let  me  follow  him 
 down  and  over  he's  really  moving  fast  I 
 think  he's  moving  faster  than  any  of  the 
 other  ones  we've  seen  today  look  at  him 
 go  he's  wriggling  around  yeah  that's  a 
 good  sign  oh  where'd  he  go  he's  moving 
 off  your  screen  there  that's  the  hard 
 part  sometimes  they  go  too  fast  there  he 
 is  okay  it  is  a  good  sign  that  that 
 there's  movement  for  sure  cuz  if  you  see 
 dead  nematodes  eh  you  know  you  might 
 want  to  think  twice  about  why  but  yeah 
 this  one's  a  bacterial  feeder  again  cuz 
 there  is  a  bunch  of  little  green  um 
 bacteria  that  you  can  see  inside  of 
 their  see-through  also  but  it's  pretty 
 cool  to  see  the  digestive  system  I  think 
 he  got  stuck  on  there  that's  wild  we  can 
 watch  this  all  day  we're  we're  just 
 nerding  out  right  now  excuse  us  but 
 that's  so  cool  it  might  look  a  little 
 bit  inert  in  a  bag  like  this  but  if  you 
 get  it  under  the  microscope  there's  so 
 much  beautiful  life  and  it's  really 
 important  that  we  remember  that  when 
 we're  putting  things  into  our  soil  we 
 want  to  be  supporting  that  life  the  best 
 way  to  do  that  is  with  products  that  are 
 either  food  for  microbes  or  attractions 
 for  microbes  or  or  some  of  the  microbes 
 themselves  well  thanks  so  much  John  for 
 having  me  John  and  Chip  I  don't  know 
 where  he's  glad  you  could  come  what  do 
 you  think  should  they  like  the  video 
 please  like  this  video  leave  us  a  little 
 comment  below  and  subscribe  to  John's 
 YouTube  channel  because  we're  putting 
 out  fun  stuff  like  this  every  week  look 
 at  those  aren't  those  something  take  you 
 got  to  serious  you  got  to  get  that 
 that's  Keith  Davey  in  full  Glory  wow  the 
 Deep  Red  is  nice  yeah  and  then  that  and 
 then  that  kind  of  like  it's  got  a  light 
 on  it  you  know  wow  look  at 
 that  that's  beautiful  yeah  yeah  I  know 
 they're  I'm  sure  they're  Keith  Davey  so 
 if  you  come  here  you  can  kind  of  see  the 
 river  yeah  and  sometime  there's  not  much 
 water  in  it  right  now  but  but  yeah 
 that's  the  that's  the  desired  view  of 
 the  river

---

 this  looks  terrible  these  got  to  go  the 
 soil  has  problems  something  needs  to 
 change  here  oh  okay  you  Landscape 
 Architects  yeah  okay  we'll  come  up  with 
 something  we  worked  in  this  yard  and 
 kind  of  remodeled  it  about  14  years  ago 
 right  correct  you  even  redid  the 
 irrigation  and  so  now  14  years  later  she 
 wants  to  look  at  everything  and  make 
 some  necessary  improvements  and  show  us 
 things  that  have  worked  well  and  not 
 worked  well  some  of  those  involve  soil 
 and  that's  why  we  brought  Shannon  and 
 Chip  he's  he's  an  expert  on 
 soil  just  describe  the  types  of  things 
 you'd  like  us  to  address  when  I  built 
 these  four  rais  beds  I  had  soil  brought 
 in  I  never  have  thought  the  soil  was 
 good  enough  that  was  in  there  now  each 
 year  I  put  bags  and  bags  of  compost  on 
 the  top  but  I  think  my  garden  could  do 
 better  if  the  soil  was  better  if  you 
 guys  want  to  dig  up  right  there  and  look 
 at  it  that'd  be  fine  you  want  to  take  a 
 soil  sample  from  three  different  parts 
 of  whatever  area  you're  sampling  you 
 want  to  avoid  any  kind  of  mulch  or 
 anything  that's  on  top  because  you  can't 
 really  break  that  down  and  really  see 
 what's  going  on  in  the  soil  the  soil 
 seems  fluffy  and  irrated 
 but  there  could  be  anything  happening  in 
 there  microbially  if  this  was 
 overwatered  we'd  see  less  soil  life  for 
 sure  and  if  we  did  see  any  it  might  be 
 like  Pilates  because  this  could  be  Anor 
 robic  soil  I  don't  think  it's  Anor  robic 
 it's  pretty  moist  but  really  when 
 something's  really  water  logged  you  can 
 tell  it's  kind  of  it's  the  worst  case 
 like  kind  of  like  a  mud  puddle  or  really 
 really  compact  like  clay  and  um  no  air 
 holes  so  I'm  kind  of  curious  as  to  why 
 this  isn't  doing  well  cuz  at  first 
 glance  and  also  scooping  it  it  seems  to 
 be  air  rated  that's  the  third  spot  so 
 we're 
 good  these  plants  you  put  in  the  14 
 years  ago  see  how  big  they  are  you  used 
 to  be  able  to  see  the  Roses  back  there 
 they're  humongous  yeah  they've  gotten 
 too  big  that's  Raphael  epis  Miner  which 
 is  a  white  blooming  raft  that  we  would 
 hope  in  this  case  would  stay  about  this 
 size  but  they're  just  humongous  and  so 
 I'm  thinking  maybe  have  to  take  them  out 
 and  replace  them  with  something  else 
 yeah  something  more  appropriate  in  size 
 some  of  the  lily  of  the  Nile  has  also 
 died  that's  mostly  because  of  heat  you 
 get  heat  problematic  heat  real  close  to 
 walkways  and  you'll  see  that  a  lot  of 
 times  in  lawns  where  it's  hard  to  keep 
 the  lawn  green  right  next  to  the  walkway 
 because  of  that  reflected  heat  and  here 
 I  pulled  those  out  just  because  it 
 became  too  much  the  rfus  minor  yeah  okay 
 all  right  and  I'm  thinking  this 
 something  needs  to  change  here  yeah  okay 
 you  Landscape  Architects  yeah  okay  we'll 
 come  up  with 
 something  the  other  place  I  think  I've 
 got  some  soil  issues  is  right  in  here  so 
 you  had  plants  here  the  the  red  ones 
 that  grow  really  big  the  sprinklers 
 broke  and  I  didn't  notice  it  it  was  July 
 they  all  died  so  I  replaced  them  with 
 these  things  thinking  they'd  be  big  and 
 kind  of  exotic  looking  and  they  have  and 
 they  they've  been  in  the  ground  now  for 
 about  four  or  five  years  and  that's  as 
 big  as  they've  gotten  huh  soil  issues  so 
 you  mentioned  exotic  looking  so  you 
 would  like  the  tropical  look  here  no  I 
 you  know  whatever  matches  the  art  again 
 we're  back  to  well  tropical  wouldn't 
 match  the  art  but  we  could  do  a  little 
 bit  of  tropical  no  no  no  no  see  that's 
 what  I  now  you  see  why  I  called  you  John 
 okay  is  because  I  know  it's  wrong  and 
 what  do  you  think  of  these  uh  pum 
 wheelers  they're  fine  I  guess  a  lot  of 
 times  what  you  find  after  14  years  years 
 is  a  lot  of  the  plants  have  gotten  a 
 little  too  big  and  you  know  aren't 
 performing  exactly  optimally  for  the 
 situation  you  know  it  would  be  clear 
 that  you'd  want  to  screen  that  back 
 fence  so  you  know  those  plants  that  are 
 tall  there  seem  appropriate  but  if 
 you're  either  tired  of  them  or  it  looks 
 like  somebody  has  to  prune  these  to  keep 
 them  yeah  they  do  they  prune  them  all 
 the  time  and  i'  prefer  to  try  to  pick 
 plants  that  you  don't  have  to  prune  all 
 the  time  and  let  them  grow  their  natural 
 form  rather  than  I  call  this  clubbing 
 them  into  sub  Mission  and  they  look  like 
 they've  been  clubbed  into  submission 
 frankly  so  maybe  we  want  to  take  out  the 
 plants  that  have  been  clubbed  so  much 
 over  the  years  and  we're  kind  of  tired 
 of  that  look  remembering  all  our  shapes 
 from  geometry  right  I  had  Mr  gains  I 
 don't  know  who  you  had  I  don't 
 remember  it  looks  like  it's  pretty  wet 
 back  here  honestly  and  it  gets  a  lot  of 
 shade  and  you  can  tell  by  the  Moss  that 
 it  might  be  a  little  bit  water  l  oh  my 
 gosh  actually  it's  very  comp  compact 
 like  Sword  and  the  stone  kind  of 
 compact  okay  so  yeah  we're  still  going 
 to  try  to  get  down  a  couple  of  inches 
 but  already  it's  pretty  clay  it's  pretty 
 compact  so  it'll  be  interesting  to  see 
 to  see  what  we  find  so  Moss  likes  to 
 grow  in  kind  of  Northern  aspects  um  and 
 really  enjoys  shade  and  and  also  water 
 so  when  you're  growing  other  plants  it's 
 it's  not  really  like  the  best  indicator 
 it  means  it  might  be  too  wet  for  too 
 long  um  and  that  they  might  not  be 
 getting  enough  sun  I  don't  know  if  we 
 should  keep  that  Apricot  Tree  in  there 
 or  not  how's  it  do  does  it  it's  been  in 
 there  about  3  years  and  it's  finally 
 getting  some  sun  because  it's  getting 
 tall  enough  uh  apricot  is  a  nice  tree  I 
 think  I  think  so  too  and  I  was  it's  a 
 Blenheim  and  I  thought  well  if  it  grows 
 but  look  at  this  there's  you  know  what 
 is  this  I  need  to  cut  that  out  where'd 
 that  come  from  before  there  was  a  big 
 tall  pine  tree  right  here  M  and  these 
 are  Z  did  fine  as  you  can  see  this  back 
 one  has  died  yeah  and  I  don't  know  if 
 the  zelas  are  the  right  thing  for  right 
 here  anymore  or  what  I  bet  we  could  get 
 them  to  grow  you  know  optimize  the  soil 
 even  if  they  get  a  little  too  much  sun 
 usually  by  feeding  them  properly  we  get 
 them  to  grow  two  things  I  think  are 
 important  with  aelas  is  a  strategic 
 timing  of  the  pruning  combined  with  the 
 proper  feeding  makes  them  much  Lusher 
 and  not  so  leggy  yeah  that's  really 
 Ley  and  then  coming  around  the  corner 
 that  plant  is  dead  something  needs  to  go 
 in  there  that's  going  to  be  like  about  8 
 feet  high  and  get  really  wide  or  maybe 
 it's  a  multiple  plants  I  just  don't  know 
 but  that  has  been  an  area  that  I  really 
 don't  know  what  to  do  with  and  it's  my 
 main  view  from  my  kitchen  is  looking  at 
 that  dead  plant  okay  yeah  we  can  fix 
 that  how  long  ago  did  that  die  about  2 
 three  years  ago  and  The  Gardener  has  not 
 taken  it  out  do  you  have  uh  any  idea  why 
 it  died  I  don't  it  just  died  and  I  don't 
 have  a  explanation  yeah  we  could  do 
 something  a  little  more  special  I  think 
 tropical  that  might  be  an  appropriate 
 spot  right  behind  a  water  feature  yeah 
 it's  a  water  feature  now  there  this  guy 
 I  put  in  he  was  only  you  know  a  little 
 one  Galler  he's  growing  Japanese  aelia 
 he's  growing  slowly  obviously  even 
 something  like  that  if  you  like  Japanese 
 aelia  even  more  of  it  you  know  where  I 
 look  nice  a  planting  of  it  would  work 
 yeah  something  special  I  think  cuz 
 you've  got  two  fences  that  are  ugly  yeah 
 and  then  you  have  this  water  feature  and 
 that's  my  main  view  that's  really  needs 
 to  be 
 fixed  this  soil  almost  looks  like 
 concrete  honestly  yeah  it's  it's  like 
 hard  pan  Which  is  um  so  that's  really 
 really  compacted  almost  to  the  point 
 where  it  looks  like  concrete 
 it's 
 okay  it's  kind  of  Mossy  also  yep  uhoh 
 and  the  dog  found  us  so  we  better  be 
 quick  I  would  expect  it  to  be  pretty 
 devoid  of  life  and  a  lot  of  clay  because 
 clay  um  clay  can  kind  of  act  like 
 concrete  like  like  this  is  looking  like 
 and  it  doesn't  really  appear  that 
 there's  much  irration  in  here  it's 
 pretty  easy  to  see  why  plants  could  be 
 struggling  back 
 here  come  here  little  guy  oh  there  you 
 are  I  told  you  dogs  just  love  my  yard  if 
 you  ever  need  a  babysitter  let  me 
 know  so  that's  the  big  items  in  the 
 backyard  so  now  we'll  have  to  go  to  the 
 front  yard 
 I  put  this  tree  in  John  because  I  wanted 
 to  have  something  that  grows  really  wide 
 and  the  problem  with  the  tree  is  the 
 Grasshoppers  love  it  yeah  each  spring 
 they  strip  it  might  be  army  worms  I  see 
 that  on  these  all  the  time  do  you  see 
 the  Grasshoppers  or  you  just  assuming 
 you've  seen  grasshoppers  gr  but  it  could 
 be  both  yeah  that  is  a  problem  with  this 
 type  of  red  bud  you  have  another  red  bud 
 over  there  I  have  five  let's  go  over  and 
 look  at  them  this  Privet  Hedge  is  doing 
 what  you  want  it  to  yeah  I  like  this 
 hedge  okay  look  at  the  difference  in  the 
 height  yeah  huh  they  almost  look  like 
 different  trees  huh  yes  I  don't  know  and 
 I  was  going  to  ask  you  do  I  just  prune 
 them  down  to  all  the  same  pip  you  could 
 use  pruning  to  make  them  look  the  same 
 and  and  that  is  the  idea  here  they're 
 supposed  to  all  look  yeah  they  were 
 supposed  to  be  the  same  yeah  it  looks 
 like  the  bloom  is  fantastic  on  these  cuz 
 you  see  the  seed  pods  that's  that  comes 
 after  you  must  notice  a  really  nice 
 bloom  in  the  spring  yes  yeah  yes  we  have 
 a  guy  I  could  refer  you  to  to  skillfully 
 prune  those  to  where  they  all  look 
 similar  and  I  I  think  it's  doable  and 
 then  I  need  some  PR  my  peach  tree  in  a 
 decent  way  and  he  can  do  that  too 
 yeah  I  I  would  assume  she  has  some  life 
 in  the  soil  usually  that's  the  case  even 
 in  soil  that  isn't  as  good  as  it  can  be 
 so  obviously  we're  going  to  find 
 bacteria  right  it's  it's  everywhere  I 
 think  we  would  definitely  find  bacteria 
 and  not  much  in  the  higher  life  forms 
 the  problems  in  her  garden  didn't  really 
 look  to  me  like  they  were  caused  by  poor 
 soil  although  she  hadn't  made  a  lot  of 
 efforts  to  build  the  soil  over  the  years 
 um  so  I'm  thinking  we're  going  to  kind 
 of  find  an  average  soil  that  we  can 
 improve  dramatically  yeah  I  agree  yeah 
 because  she  was  mentioning  to  us  that 
 she  was  having  trouble  germinating  a 
 bunch  of  the  veggies  so  this  is  from 
 specifically  her  veggie  um  yeah  box  and 
 in  the  vegetable  areas  you  know  you  need 
 really  good  soil  and  so  we're  to  try  to 
 help  her  and  make  it  excellent  soil  but 
 I'm  I'm  assuming  even  in  those  boxes 
 that  it's  at  least  okay  right  now  yeah 
 germination  is  usually  well  it  can  be 
 related  to  soil  but  it's  usually  related 
 to  how  you  keep  the  seeds  moist  mhm  yeah 
 yeah  that's  true  actually  we  didn't  ask 
 her  about  that  okay 
 yeah  yeah  I  mean  you  know  there's 
 there's  I'm  not  seeing  fungi 
 but  I'm  not  surprised  at  what  we're 
 seeing  in  Cherry's  right  now 
 because  she  said  that  she's  really 
 having  trouble  getting  something  to  grow 
 and  there's  not  much  going  on  at  all  in 
 there 
 so  when  you  did  this  14  years  ago  you 
 put  in  the  mini  bottle  brush  oh  and  of 
 course  the  Bermuda  lawn  grew  into  it 
 there  was  no  way  to  get  that  all  cleaned 
 out  and  so  therefore  I  pulled  it  out 
 then  I  spent  two  or  3  years  just  having 
 flowers  in  here  that  looked  terrible  and 
 then  I  thought  well  maybe  roses  well 
 they  don't  look  good  either 
 so  now  I  need  Landscape  Architects  to 
 figure  out  what  to  put  in  this  hole  okay 
 that's  like  20  ft  long  and  4T  wide  it's 
 almost  like  a  parking  strip  okay  we'll 
 address  that  and  the  rest  of  the  stuff 
 you're  pretty  happy  with  well  I  think  it 
 looks  okay  even  though  they  you  know 
 created  little  boxes  out  of 
 everything  so  this  is  the  last  soil  that 
 we're  testing  and  it's  from  Sherry's 
 house  and  it  was  a  very  Mossy  spot  near 
 the  house  that  looked  like  it  might  have 
 been  a  little  bit  water  logged  on  a  lot 
 of 
 Shades  yep 
 not  not  seeing  anything  of  Interest  I'll 
 just  kind  of  mineral 
 or  like  little  plant 
 parts  yeah  she  doesn't  have  any 
 nematodes  um 
 or 
 fungi  yeah  I  mean  we  could  call  it  with 
 Sherry's  Garden  like  it's  there's  not 
 that  much  going  on  biologically 
 except  bacteria  so  Sherry's  yard  has 
 mostly  just  the  lowest  form  of  life  um 
 so  it's  bacterial  based  soil  and  we  want 
 to  increase  the  complexity  so  we'll  be 
 suggesting  some  additives  to  um  build 
 more  complex  life  not  just  bacteria  yeah 
 yeah  we  want  to  find  good  protozoa  and 
 um  nematodes  and  um  fungi  in  there  too 
 and  we  really  aren't  seeing  that  which 
 is  what  we  predicted  because  she  was 
 having  trouble  growing  her  vegetables  so 
 we're  going  to  need  to  add  a  bunch  of 
 good  life  to  the  soil  with  John  and  Bobs 
 yeah 
 yeah  so  we  walked  around  with  Sher  she 
 voiced  her  concerns  and  frustrations 
 about  her  garden  we're  going  to  try  to 
 address  those  if  you'd  like  to  see  how 
 dramatically  we  can  improve  things  there 
 and  build  better  soil  then  subscribe  to 
 our  Channel  please  like  this  video  leave 
 us  a  little  comment  below  and  subscribe 
 to  John's  YouTube  channel  because  we're 
 putting  out  fun  stuff  like  this  every 
 week

---

 we're  always  talking  about  these  little 
 microbes  in  the  soil  but  we've  never 
 shown  them  to  you  and  that's  what  we're 
 going  to  do  today  you  said  1  to  3  in 
 yeah  like  3  in  down  I'm  here  today  with 
 my  microscope  to  help  John  and  Chip 
 discover  what's  actually  crawling  around 
 there  in  the  soil  it's  that  life  that 
 will  feed  all  your  plants  make  your 
 plants  so  they  don't  get  pests  and 
 diseases  our  videos  are  missing  a 
 youthful  exuberance  because  I'm  beyond 
 youthful  although  hopefully  I'm  still 
 exuberant  so  we're  introducing  Shannon 
 who  is  going  to  add  a  useful  exuberance 
 to  our  channel  here  she  not  only  has  a 
 degree  in  landscape  architecture  but  she 
 also  has  studied  soil  which  is  a  unique 
 combination  not  a  lot  of  Landscape 
 Architects  have  much  education  in  soil 
 hi  everyone  I'm  Shannon  um  I'm  a  project 
 manager  for  a  landscape  architecture 
 company  out  of  Napa  California  and  I  got 
 really  interested  in  soil  Health  a  few 
 years  ago  I  just  heard  offhandedly  how 
 it  can  really  reduce  the  impact  of 
 climate  change  the  soil  is  a  huge  carbon 
 sink  and  I  thought  that  was  fascinating 
 and  I  wanted  to  learn  more  and  that's 
 when  I  took  Dr  elen  ing's  class  online 
 she's  a  world-renowned  soil 
 microbiologist  anyway  I'm  here  today 
 with  my  microscope  to  help  John  and  Chip 
 discover  what's  actually  crawling  around 
 there  in  the  soil  because  I  think  we 
 talk  about  it  a  lot  and  we  can't  see  um 
 many  of  the  Little  Critters  with  the 
 human  eye  you  want  to  take  a  soil  sample 
 Le  from  three  different  parts  of 
 whatever  area  you're  sampling  having  a 
 3in  deep  one  diameter  sample  is  good  um 
 you  want  to  avoid  any  kind  of  mulch  or 
 anything  that's  on  top  because  you  can't 
 really  break  that  down  and  really  see 
 what's  going  on  in  the  soil  I  actually 
 forgot  my  zip  locks  this  morning  and  we 
 almost  had  to  cancel  everything  but  chip 
 here  saved  the  day  with  his  little  poop 
 bags  so  you  can  use  anything  to  um 
 collect  soil  and  um  chip  thank  you  for 
 your  service 
 all  I'm  going  to  do  is  kind  of  break  up 
 the  soil  and  break  up  the  the  Aggregates 
 a  little  bit  because  we  can't  really  see 
 through  on  our  shadowing  microscope  if 
 we  don't  have  like  a  very  kind  of  thin 
 layer  we  just  want  one  dry  milliliter  of 
 soil  so  I'm  going  to  take  that  out  right 
 now  it  might  get  a  little  bit  messy  yep 
 it  already  got  a  little  bit  messy  that's 
 soil  science  and  we're  going  to  add  4 
 MERS  of  water  and  this  is  the  clean  I 
 always  have  two  cups  one's  clean  and 
 one's  my  dirty  the  water  that  we  like  to 
 use  when  we  do  this  um  has  been  treated 
 with  humic  acid  to  cancel  out  the 
 chlorine  or  chloramine  that's  in  there 
 because  it's  really  not  good  for  the  um 
 biology  so  we  don't  want  to  kill  the 
 little  guys  before  we  can  see  them  under 
 the  microscope  so  now  we  have  the  soil 
 in  here  and  the  water  but  we  kind  of 
 want  to  loosen  the  little  um  biological 
 components  that  are  hiding  in  kind  of 
 the  cracks  and  crevices  um  of  the  soil 
 material  in  here  so  hey  Siri  set  timer 
 for  30  seconds  and  we  don't  want  to  kill 
 um  the  bio  ology  so  we're  just  kind  of 
 doing  a  little  Shake  um  this  is  Dr  ela's 
 method  just  back  and  forth  um  kind  of 
 one  one  second  per  shaky  shake  and  then 
 we're  going  to  get  it  on  a  slide  and  see 
 what  we  can 
 see  let's  see  what  we  got  under 
 there  and  so  this  is  the  Potted  Plant  uh 
 soil  and  I  am  seeing  some  some  dead 
 plant  parts  and  it's  kind  of  it's  kind 
 of  cool  if  we  zoom  in  we  could  see  the 
 cell  wall 
 the  bacteria  look  like  not  much  um  kind 
 of  they  don't  move  bunch  of  dots 
 yeah  we're  going  to  go  to  the  vegetable 
 garden  where  we've  done  a  couple  of 
 videos  from  Oscar's  vegetable  garden  is 
 looking  great  right  now  and  we're  going 
 to  do  a  couple  soil  samples  there  so 
 this  has  no  mulch  so  uh  we'll  just  dig  a 
 little  bit  here  you  said  1  to  3  in  yeah 
 like  3  in  down  um  and  if  we  had  like  a 
 soil  uh  coring  device  that'd  be  easier 
 but  it's  okay  you  don't  need  specific 
 there  we  go  so  this  is  one  spot  and 
 we're  going  to  go  maybe  along  this  row 
 and  just  do  three  so  it's  a  good  kind  of 
 representative  sample  of  the  whole  area 
 Oscar  has  used  the  JN  and  Bob's  product 
 line  in  this  soil  for  quite  a  few  years 
 in  a  row  not  so  much  in  the  last  year  or 
 so  but  I  think  we're  still  going  to  find 
 lots  of  life  in  the 
 [Music] 
 soil  nothing  uh  I  might  see  a  fungal  Hy 
 actually  hia  excuse  me  let  me  zoom  in 
 yeah  that's  a  good  one  what  I  found  is  a 
 fungal  hyha  and  the  way  that  we  can  tell 
 which  ones  are  beneficial  and  even  what 
 they  are  is  it  looks  kind  of  like  maybe 
 it's  a  root  or  something  it's  long  and 
 filamentous  the  way  that  you  can  tell  if 
 it's  beneficial  or  not  is  you  want  them 
 to  be  dark  brown  in  color  and  then  the 
 thicker  the  better  too  so  this  one's  1.5 
 microns  across  which  might  not  sound 
 very  thick  but  um  it's  it's  getting 
 there  to  the  point  where  it's  going  to 
 when  it  grows  it's  going  to  get  thicker 
 and  thicker  and  just  it's  a  better  and 
 better  indicator  um  of  how  old  it  is  and 
 how  long  it's  been  in  the  soil  and  it's 
 a  really  good  indicator  of  healthy  soil 
 because  in  healthy  soil  we  want  more 
 than  just  bacteria  you're  saying  there's 
 plenty  of  bacteria  there  the  fungi  is 
 going  to  eat  the  bacteria  and  then  other 
 higher  life  forms  are  going  to  eat  the 
 fungi  right  yeah  or  the  fun  the  fungi 
 and  bacteria  um  they're  both  in  the  same 
 uh  heterotrophic  layer  and  then  yeah 
 nematodes  will  eat  them  there  are  a  lot 
 of  beneficial  nematodes  when  the  kind  of 
 high  level  organisms  eat  the  bacteria 
 and  fungi  that's  when  the  nutrients  are 
 released  in  a  plant  available  form  we 
 really  do  need  those  two  and  I  think 
 they  that  seen  one  of  those  is  is  a 
 pretty  good 
 indicator  oh  wow  John  wait  hang  on  I 
 think  I  found  a  nematode  I'm  going  to 
 I'm  going  to  zoom  in  a  little  bit  I  want 
 you  to  take  a  look  at  this  so  they  squir 
 around  like  crazy  and  they  actually  look 
 so  much  larger  than  bacteria  huge  they 
 are  huge  larg  we  were  just  looking  at  it 
 um  at  400x  which  is  fun  because  then  you 
 can  see  the  mouth  parts  and  you  can  tell 
 that  it's  really  beneficial  because  the 
 mouth  parts  will  tell  you  what  it  eats 
 and  if  it  eats  Roots  that's  not 
 beneficial  but  this  particular  one  eats 
 bacteria  so  what  we  want  is  what  I  call 
 good  nematodes  and  those  good  nematodes 
 don't  eat  Roots  people  have  terrible 
 problems  with  nematodes  that  eat  Roots 
 one  of  the  um  things  I  always  say  is  if 
 you  have  bad  nematodes  in  your  soil  that 
 you  should  build  the  soil  with  this 
 complex  life  leading  to  good  nematodes 
 because  good  nematodes  are  stronger  I'm 
 interested  in  you  if  you  agree  with  this 
 but  are  stronger  and  dominant  over  the 
 bad  nematodes  that  eat  Roots  that's  true 
 yeah  competition  agreement  with  that 
 competition  is  key  for  sure  and  to  have 
 a  soil  food  web  that's  very  active  um 
 you  need  a  lot  of  different  organisms  to 
 kind  of  complete  that  web  and  if  you 
 don't  have  a  soil  food  web  and  you're 
 just  attacking  one  one  um  negative 
 organism  with  a  bunch  of  pesticides  it's 
 not  going  to  work  out  in  the  long  term 
 it  might  kill  that  one  organism  but  if 
 everything  else  is  dead  when  you  fight 
 um  root  eating  nematodes  with  chemicals 
 it  pretty  much  uh  the  result  is  dead 
 soil  yeah  we're  going  to  do  this  area 
 which  has  some  rendance  that  are 
 difficult  to  grow  in  Fresno  they  don't 
 like  our  summers  and  an  Alaska  aelia  and 
 Oscars  telling  us  these  just  reliably 
 look  great  all  year  round  so  the  soil  is 
 probably  a  little  bit  acid  this  viburnum 
 lace  cap  does  beautifully  with  a 
 fantastic  Bloom  we're  curious  what  the 
 life  in  this  soil  looks 
 [Music] 
 like  oh  is  that  no  do  you  immediately 
 see  bacteria  oh  yeah  would  you  say  every 
 time  you  look  at  soil  you  see  bacteria 
 yeah  no  yeah  it's  it's  everywhere 
 omnipresent  um  and  also  what  I  kind  of 
 like  to  do  um  is  initially  what  I'm 
 looking  is  look  for  the  fun  things  that 
 are  alive  and  moving  around  yeah  um  and 
 so  the  bacteria  isn't  as  evident  you 
 identify  the  fun  things  as  nematodes  and 
 I  think  many  soils  don't  have  good 
 nematodes  because  because  they're 
 underdeveloped  they  don't  have  they 
 don't  have  complex  life  they  have  the 
 simplest  form  of  life  bacteria  oh  I 
 think  I  just  found  a  micro  Arthur  prod 
 leg  Yeah  it's  a  little  kind  of  hairy 
 looking  thing  so  a  micro  Arthur  pod  eats 
 what  um  I  think  they  would  eat  the 
 second  tier  but  they're  higher  up  in  the 
 they're  higher  up  in  the  food  chain  of 
 the  you  know  soil  food  web  um  because 
 they're  they're  like  mini  spiders  you 
 know  little  eight-legged  creepy  crawlies 
 and  um  but  also  completely  microscopic 
 yeah  yeah  cuz  I'm  looking  at  the  leg 
 right  now  if  you  want  to 
 see  do  you  see  it  kind  of  looks  like  it 
 has  little  hairs  on  it  it's  a  little  leg 
 mhm  M  yeah  doesn't  move  no  cuz  it's 
 detached  from  the  body  um  but  yeah  I  can 
 um  we'll  take  a  we'll  take  a  little 
 picture  of  that  one  I 
 think  it  might  look  a  little  bit  in  nert 
 in  a  bag  like  this  but  if  you  get  it 
 under  the  microscope  there's  so  much 
 beautiful  life  and  it's  really  important 
 that  we  remember  that  when  we're  putting 
 things  into  our  soil  we  want  to  be 
 supporting  that  life  the  best  way  to  do 
 that  is  with  products  that  are  either 
 food  for  microbes  or  attractants  for 
 microbes  or  or  some  of  the  microbes  the 
 eles  well  thanks  so  much  John  for  having 
 me  John  and  Chip  I  don't  know  where  he's 
 glad  you  come  chip  is  here  somewhere 
 what  do  you  think  should  they  like  the 
 video  please  like  this  video  leave  us  a 
 little  comment  below  and  subscribe  to 
 John's  YouTube  channel  because  we're 
 putting  out  fun  stuff  like  this  every 
 week

---

 this  is  the  layer  we  were  en  counting 
 hard  soil  soils  like  kiche  compacted 
 soil  hard  panning  soil  makes  trees 
 difficult  to  grow  today  we're  going  to 
 show  you  several  ways  of  dealing  with 
 those  problems  I'm  John  Valentino 
 president  of  John  AB  Bob's  Corporation 
 we're  using  our  products  on  this  bad 
 soil  to  plant  two  replacement  platinus 
 race  mosa  platinus  race  mosa  is 
 California  Sycamore  you  can  see  they 
 lined  their  driveway  with  them  they 
 lights  in  them  makes  kind  of  a  grand 
 entrance  and  on  one  side  here  the  soil 
 seems  particularly  bad  several  of  the 
 trees  aren't  doing  well  and  two  of  them 
 completely  died  we  have  some  of  the 
 characteristics  of  kiche  soil  except  we 
 don't  have  alkalinity  which  is  a  real 
 problem  with  kiche  soil  where  you  have 
 to  lower  the  ph  before  you  can  get 
 anything  to  change  here  our  pH  is  pretty 
 normal  so  we're  a  little  ahead  there 
 since  the  soil  was  so  hard  and  we  have  a 
 lot  of  space  here 
 we  brought  our  mini  excavator  which  you 
 can  see  here  we  have  a  big  augur  on  our 
 Bobcat  that  we  could  use  also  but  an 
 auger  isn't  as  good  as  if  you  could  dig 
 the  hole  with  a  mini  excavator  and  dig 
 it  way  bigger  than  you  need  and  dig  it 
 unevenly  an  augur  in  hard  conditions  it 
 creates  this  kind  of  glazed  soil  that's 
 like  burnished  and  that  is  difficult  for 
 tree  roots  to  get  through  that  and  go 
 into  the  native  soil  and  that's  what  we 
 want  to  happen  whereas  if  you  contrast 
 that  in  your  mind  to  digging  it  with 
 Jagged  you  know  irregular  shapes  and  dig 
 it  really  wide  and  go  through  the  hard 
 pan  layer  with  this  mini  excavator  and 
 we  got  into  different  kinds  of  soil  so 
 we  have  a  completely  better  situation 
 now  than  how  the  previous  trees  were 
 planted  on  each  tree  how  big  were  the 
 holes  that  you  we  ended  up  with  I  had 
 around  4  ft 
 wide  and  about  10  about  10  feet  long 
 yeah  so  that's  a  good  size  they  were 
 just  very  irregular  right  kind  of  rough 
 edges  and  witches  as  you're  scraping 
 down  the  escavator  is  going  to  find 
 spots  that  they're  softer  so  you're  not 
 going  to  go  just  straight  down  it's 
 going  to  start  moving  everywhere  mhm  as 
 it's  breaking  down  the  soil  many  of  you 
 don't  have  an  opportunity  to  pull  up  a 
 mini  excavator  on  your  property  you 
 could  use  a  small  Jackhammer  to  do  the 
 same  thing  although  it's  not  fun  work 
 you  can  hire  somebody  with  an  augur  and 
 try  to  derill  more  than  one  holes  but 
 even  that  takes  access  of 
 equipment  now  that's  more  like  it  yeah 
 this  is  this  is  the  layer  we  were  en 
 counting  I'm  hitting  it  about  as  hard  as 
 I  can  and  this  is  not  good  to  grow 
 plants  in  not  good  for  water  penetration 
 at  what  depth  did  you  hit  really  hard 
 soil  that  we  might  call  hard  pan  or  or 
 really  compacted  soil  about  a  foot  and  a 
 half  from  top  of  the  grade  okay  that's 
 when  I  started  hitting  the  har  pan  do 
 you  think  it  was  uh  just  compacted  hard 
 clay  soil  or  do  you  think  it  was  more 
 like  concrete  more  like  concrete  okay 
 and  so  then  how  did  you  break  it  up  with 
 the  mini  excavator  scraping  over  it  over 
 and  over  it  was  really  timec  consuming 
 so  one  hole  took  you  how 
 long  I  want  to  say  roughly  about  6  hours 
 a  foot  and  a  half  you  hit  hard  soil  it's 
 about  3  ft  deep  you  finally  get  through 
 it  what's  under  that  I  started  finding  a 
 different  type  of  sand  like  white  kind 
 of  sand  and  then  I  hit  the  sand  sand  oh 
 so  the  the  white  sand  that  didn't  seem 
 quite  like  100%  sand  was  at  what  5T  6 
 feet  no  it  was  about  seven  s  and  a  half 
 7  and  1/2  ft  you  went  all  the  way  down 
 to  about  10  ft  10  yeah  and  then  probably 
 past  10 
 and  at  just  a  little  past  10  ft  is  where 
 you  hit  real  sand  yeah  real  and  so 
 that's  how  we  know  now  we're  into  an 
 area  where  that  water  will  drain  good 
 and  that's  really  our 
 goal  see  I  did  I  did  break  it  so  that's 
 that's  what  pretty  much  the  hard  layer 
 that  we  got  through  a  lot  of  times  these 
 layers  are  only  a  foot  or  so  so  you  know 
 Jackhammer  goes  pretty  fast  but  in  this 
 case  if  you  have  5  ft  of  this  takes  a 
 while  even  with  a  big  mini  excavator  and 
 then  we  used  that  native  soil  the  broken 
 up  rock  and  all  of  that  and  we  mixed  in 
 a  lot  of  our  blend  and  then  we  put 
 penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller  on  the  top 
 we'll  recommend  that  he  continue  to  do 
 that  and  we're  trying  to  create  an 
 environment  with  lots  of  microbiology 
 get  these  roots  to  spread  out  we  chose 
 in  this  case  not  to  use  any  other 
 material  when  we  back  filled  the  holes 
 we  just  used  our  products  and  the  native 
 soil  because  we  don't  want  to  create  a 
 completely  different  soil  texture  in 
 this  hole  we  want  it  to  be  kind  of  like 
 the  native  soil  if  you  use  a  lot  of 
 amendment  like  um  Peete  Moss  or 
 something  and  you  completely  change 
 everything  about  where  the  tree  is 
 planted  not  only  water  has  a  hard  time 
 getting  out  of  that  but  also  Roots  have 
 a  hard  time  getting  out  of  there  because 
 they  just  stay  in  the  improved  soil  and 
 that's  not  what  we  want  we  want  the  root 
 to  Branch  out  into  the  native 
 soil  the  type  of  material  we  found  now 
 we  broke  this  up  um  most  of  the  time 
 into  smaller  pieces  oh  well  so  this  is 
 not  hard  pen  this  is  just  hard  compacted 
 soil  but  this  we  went  through  with  the 
 mini  excavator  broke  it  up  you  can  see 
 water  would  impact  this  you  can  test  the 
 hole  and  maybe  you  can  determine  that 
 like  that  material  I  just  had  in  my  hand 
 if  that  was  the  worst  we  encountered 
 then  I'd  feel  comfortable  just  digging 
 good  size  hole  by  hand  using  water  to 
 make  sure  we  had  penetration  and  then 
 use  our  products  to  change  everything 
 about  that  soil  over  time  our  blend  and 
 our  penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller  can 
 change  hard  compacted  layers  like  that 
 as  long  as  you  give  it  a  good  start  dig 
 a  good  siiz  hole  maybe  twice  the  size  of 
 the  root  ball  not  necessarily  deeper 
 than  the  root  ball  unless  the  layer 
 there  is  real  hard  we  don't  want  to  set 
 the  tree  on  something  real  hard  we  want 
 to  break  that  up 
 some  Toby  uh  is  here  because  he  thought 
 chip  was  here  he  came  out  to  see  chip 
 but  uh  chip  isn't  here  this  morning  he's 
 walking  with  uh  my  wife  you  know  chip  is 
 such  a  remarkable  dog  that  to  replace 
 him  we  had  to  get  three  dogs  Toby's  one 
 of  them  we  forgot  this  little  guy's  name 
 and  then  we  have  Sesame  Toby  welcome  you 
 can  stand  right  by  me  here  Manuel  and 
 Jose  are  going  to  show  you  how  they're 
 going  to  stake  this  and  then  they're 
 also  going  to  show  you  how  they're  going 
 to  slightly  bury  the  drift  system  um  so 
 that  we  don't  get  squirrels  and  stuff 
 eating  them  they'll  do  away  with  the 
 basins  cuz  we're  having  relatively  cool 
 weather  and  we're  in  late  October  now  so 
 we  don't  need  the  basins  uh  right  after 
 planting  the  owners  already  had  drip 
 irrigation  so  we  used  a  double  ring  of 
 drip  irrigation  you'll  see  the  the 
 tubing  has  Ms  in  it  we  put  one  ring 
 right  over  the  root  ball  the  existing 
 root  ball  and  then  we  made  a  bigger  ring 
 out  a  little  farther  out  for  as  it 
 starts  to  root  once  these  start  to  grow 
 we  might  choose  to  put  a  third  ring  we 
 have  to  stake  the  trees  in  this  case  you 
 can  see  they  both  have  a  large  pul  pine 
 tied  to  the  trunk  that  isn't  good  to 
 leave  it  on  there  if  the  tree  is  strong 
 enough  which  we  believe  these  two  are 
 we're  going  to  take  that  steak  off 
 because  because  we  want  the  tree  to  move 
 in  the  wind  if  the  tree  can  move  in  the 
 wind  it  develops  tensil  strength  in  its 
 trunk  and  after  a  year  or  two  you  should 
 be  able  to  remove  all  kinds  of  staking 
 we're  going  to  put  the  staks 
 perpendicular  to  the  wind  direction  so 
 when  the  wind  blows  the  wind  doesn't 
 blow  into  the  steak  the  wind  blows  into 
 the  tree  trunk  the  tree  trunk  moves  a 
 little  and  that  allows  the  tree  trunk  to 
 get  stronger  get  wider  at  the  bottom  and 
 be  able  to  stand  alone  over  time  to  do 
 that  you  need  to  determine  what  you 
 think  is  the  prevailing  wind  direction 
 in  our  area  here  our  prevailing  wind 
 goes  out  of  the  Northwest  into  the 
 southeast  so  we'll  put  our  Stakes 
 perpendicular  to  that  so  hopefully  this 
 was  informational  for  you  if  so  please 
 like  it  and  subscribe  and  encourage  all 
 your  friends  and  relatives  to  subscribe 
 we've  got  a  couple  other  videos  that 
 talk  about  tree  planting  also  but  this 
 this  one  was  interesting  to  us  because 
 of  the  challenge  of  the  hard  pan  layer

---

 Roots  we  get  a  lot  of  complaints  about 
 poor  drainage  we  get  a  lot  of  complaints 
 about  and  drainage  that  doesn't  work  it 
 was  these  trees  causing  the  concrete 
 needing  to  be  replaced  and  then  that 
 need  to  be  replaced  gave  us  the 
 opportunity  to  improve  the  irrigation 
 system  and  to  check  the  existing 
 irrigation  system  which  was  good  seven 
 years  ago  but  you  really  should  check  it 
 more  than  every  seven  years  you  should 
 probably  check  it  about  once  a  year  or 
 once  every  other  year  all  of  our  pipes 
 that  we  installed  7  years  ago  appear  to 
 be  in  really  good  shape  no  damage  no  no 
 breaking  of  pipes  no  roots  damaging  it 
 because  it's  solid  white  drainage  pipe  I 
 think  we've  talked  before  about  some 
 drainage  line  that  has  holes  in  it 
 problem  with  those  holes  is  roots  go  in 
 there  and  fill  it  up  and  plug  it  there's 
 no  holes  in  this  we  just  take  that  water 
 where  we  want  to  take  it  one  good  way  to 
 check  it  is  when  it's  warm  you  put  a 
 hose  on  one  Inlet  and  make  sure  that 
 water  goes  where  it's  supposed  to  and  if 
 it  starts  backing  up  then  you  know 
 you've  got  a  problem  we  wanted  to  make 
 sure  this  was  working  right  so  we  put  a 
 hose  in  it  and  we  filled  it  with  water 
 and  it  for  a  few  minutes  it  was  fine 
 until  the  pipe  filled  up  and  then  it 
 would  start  overflowing  which  allowed  us 
 to  figure  out  aha  it's  not  draining  we 
 found  a  little  John  bottle  brush  right 
 at  the  street  had  put  roots  and  gone 
 into  the  place  where  the  water  comes  out 
 to  drain  to  the  street  it  had  come  from 
 the  top  not  from  the  soil  it  was  seeking 
 water  and  that  water  was  uh  in  the 
 drainage  line  and  it  just  completely 
 plugged  up  this  system  when  we  took  all 
 the  roots  out  it's  working  great  now 
 probably  once  a  year  you  need  to  make 
 sure  that  little  John  Bush  isn't  putting 
 Roots  into  my  outlet  for  the  drainage 
 system  so  we  put  in  a  drainage  system 
 here  about  7  years  ago  but  since  the 
 paving  that  we  just  replaced  was 
 existing  we  couldn't  connect  the 
 drainage  to  this  drainage  chain  which 
 comes  from  the  gutters  so  the  water 
 would  come  down  this  would  fill  up  and 
 then  it  would  just  drain  out  what  we  did 
 now  is  we  connected  our  system  we  put  in 
 a  drain  you  can  see  it  right  there 
 there's  the  drain  and  we  connected  that 
 drain  to  the  existing  3-in  drainage  line 
 solid  drainage  line  that  we  had  put  in  7 
 years  earlier  now  it  comes  into  this 
 chain  it  goes  into  the  drain  this  pipe 
 comes  right  here  and  it  connects  to  this 
 drainage  system  here  which  has  a  drain 
 Inlet  there  and  a  drain  Inlet  there  we 
 put  this  in  when  we  installed  the  yard 
 so  it  it's  a  gravity  flow  and  it  goes 
 down  until  it  empties  out  into  the 
 street  so  if  you're  going  to  remove 
 concrete  think  about  your  drainage  think 
 about  why  you  have  to  remove  the 
 concrete  and  how  you're  going  to  keep  it 
 from  happening  in  the  future  and  in 
 doing  both  of  those  things  you'll  be 
 connecting  root  damage  to  drainage  to  A 
 Healthy  Garden  that  uh  functions  the  way 
 it's  supposed  to  we  hope  you  enjoyed 
 this  video  if  you  did  please  subscribe 
 and  please  like  the  video  any  comments 
 you  have  make  them  below  we'll  continue 
 to  try  to  provide  useful  videos  and  let 
 us  know  what  would  be  useful  in  your 
 case

---

 rare  that  we  have  this  opportunity  to 
 pour  the  concrete  and  put  in  the  root 
 barrier  at  the  same  time  but  given  that 
 opportunity  I  like  this  method  and  I 
 think  it's  one  Cut  Above  how  we  would 
 normally  put  it  in  so  we're  here  where 
 we  addressed  a  serious  root  intrusion 
 problem  ruining  a  back  patio  to  where 
 their  screen  door  wouldn't  slide  this 
 Tallow  tree  was  sending  out  roots 
 everywhere  damaging  the  concrete  over  a 
 period  of  a  lot  of  years  so  we  took  out 
 all  the  concrete  took  out  all  the  roots 
 and  we  instituted  a  rather  unique  and 
 creative  way  to  control  it  that's  a 
 little  different  than  what  you  usually 
 see  usually  when  we  put  in  root  barriers 
 it's  after  the  paving  is  installed  a  lot 
 of  times  we  do  the  paving  but  a  lot  of 
 times  we  don't  and  we  come  to  a  job 
 where  the  paving  is  all  in  and  the 
 detail  will  show  we're  supposed  to  dig  a 
 trench  right  next  to  the  existing 
 concrete  and  just  butt  up  root  barriers 
 right  up  against  it  and  hope  that  the 
 roots  don't  go  over  or  under  and  come 
 back  through  in  this  case  we  were 
 porting  the  concrete  so  we  use  a  method 
 that  we  think's  going  to  be  a  little 
 better  and  that  is  we  finished  the  root 
 barrier  right  up  against  the  form  just  a 
 little  above  the  dirt  grade  before  we 
 poured  the  concrete  then  we  poured  the 
 concrete  over  the  top  of  the  root 
 barrier  the  one  in  of  the  root  barrier 
 so  it's  essentially  integrated  with  the 
 concrete  there's  no  way  for  the  root  to 
 get  in  there  usually  when  we  just  butt 
 it  up  against  Paving  because  it's 
 nothing's  holding  it  there  it  can  um 
 somehow  get  in  between  at  a  joint  or 
 something  like 
 that  sometimes  you  might  have  to  consult 
 an  arborist  generally  you  can  be 
 relatively  aggressive  with  root  pruning 
 as  long  as  you  don't  go  all  the  way 
 around  the  tree  and  as  long  as  you  try 
 to  limit  yourself  just  to  the  most 
 surface  roots  in  this  case  we  did  root 
 pruning  on  a  couple  of  sides  of  this 
 tree  because  some  of  them  were  surface 
 roots  in  the  lawn  and  we  did  that  prior 
 to  over  seating  and  then  we  did  more  uh 
 on  this  side  with  the  concrete  but  we 
 did  limit  ourselves  to  just  very  surface 
 roots  that  were  a  problem  for  the 
 concrete  and  a  problem  for  the  lawn  if 
 we  dug  a  trench  you  know  2  feet  down  all 
 the  way  around  that  could  cause  a 
 problem  the  other  thing  is  these  trees 
 are  about  to  go  dormant  so  it's  a  good 
 time  to  do  root  pruning  you'll  to  some 
 degree  cut  off  the  trees  ability  to 
 provide  enough  water  uh  to  all  of  these 
 leaves  cuz  none  of  the  trees  were  pruned 
 to  compensate  for  root  loss  but  it's 
 going  to  drop  its  leaves  anyhow  hard  to 
 tell  you  exactly  how  many  roots  you  can 
 cut  but  generally  I  feel  comfortable 
 cutting  Roots  if  they're  very  surface 
 roots  and  especially  if  they're  only  on 
 one  side  of  the  tree  and  I'm  cutting 
 surface  Roots  so  if  you  have  any 
 concerns  about  the  safety  of  tree  root 
 cutting  that  an  arborist  is  the  one  want 
 to  consult  but  it's  a  very  common 
 procedure  and  very  effective  what  we  are 
 hoping  to  do  is  encouraging  this  tree  to 
 root  deeper  and  below  the  roots  that 
 were  causing  a  problem  the  combination 
 of  how  we  handled  the  root  barriers  the 
 fact  that  we  did  root  pruning  everywhere 
 where  we  think  a  root  could  damage  this 
 new  concrete  we  think  we  have  this 
 resolved  for  the  next  10  to  20  years  and 
 that's  a  great  pece  of  mind  to  eliminate 
 this  from  your  things  to  worry  about  we 
 hope  you  enjoyed  this  video  if  you  did 
 please  subscribe  and  please  like  the 
 video  any  comments  you  have  make  them 
 below  we'll  continue  to  try  to  provide 
 useful  videos  and  let  us  know  what  would 
 be  useful  in  your  case

---

 if  you're  looking  for  a  video  on  how  to 
 overseed  in  the  fall  check  out  one  of 
 our  prior  videos  and  if  instead  you're 
 looking  for  how  you  take  it  from  two  or 
 3  weeks  germinated  on  then  this  is  a 
 good  video  for 
 you  3  weeks  ago  we  overseed  this  lawn 
 which  is  a  struggling  hybrid  Bermuda 
 lawn  and  it  had  a  lot  of  areas  of  shade 
 we  talked  to  you  about  overseeding  it 
 with  perennial  rye  in  the  places  where 
 the  hybrid  Bermuda  was  and  then  doing 
 things  to  revive  that  hybrid  Bermuda  for 
 next  year  then  seeding  it  with  different 
 varieties  of  creeping  Fescue  like 
 chewings  and  red  fescue  in  the  shade 
 areas  and  we  hope  that  that  can  work  to 
 make  it  where  we  have  a  continuous  lawn 
 that  you  can't  really  tell  we're  growing 
 a  different  lawn  in  the  shade  it 
 germinated  very  quickly  it  actually 
 germinated  in  about  7  days  we  were 
 having  warm  temperature  we  were  watering 
 a  lot  keeping  that  seed  moist  when  the 
 sun  was  out  came  up  real  fast  2  weeks 
 after  eeding  it  was  mowed  For  the  First 
 Time  by  Alex  kind  of  high  because  on  the 
 first  time  you  don't  want  to  traumatize 
 the  new  lawn  too  much  and  then  the  first 
 thing  you  do  is  you  go  around  you  look 
 where  the  seed  didn't  come  up  good  and 
 you  Reed  in  those  spots  and  then  try  to 
 figure  out  why  it  didn't  come  up  good 
 and  we  think  an  inability  to  keep  that 
 seed  moist  so  in  other  words  the 
 coverage  of  the  irrigation  wasn't  that 
 great  in  those  spots  you  can  see  in  this 
 lawn  the  spots  that  didn't  come  up  were 
 almost  all  because  of  insufficient  water 
 and  a  lot  less  water  compared  to  the 
 areas  that  came  up  a  point  of  concern 
 that  we  can  see  by  by  over  seating  okay 
 where  didn't  it  come  up  must  be  we've 
 got  a  little  bit  of  a  problem  there  and 
 we're  not  getting  enough  water  well 
 that'll  help  us  in  the  spring  and  the 
 summer  too  how  we  do  that  is  a  little 
 bit  hard  to  tell  you  exactly  because 
 it's  different  in  every  system  mainly  we 
 want  to  deliver  more  water  to  those 
 spots  either  with  bigger  nozzles  or  more 
 sprinklers  or  sprinkler  with  an  undercut 
 lot  of  different  ways  to  do  it  a  lot  of 
 times  you'll  see  dry  spots  right  in 
 front  of  a  sprinkler  and  they  there  are 
 some  with  an  undercut  that  you  can  buy 
 so  that  delivers  water  right  at  the 
 sprinkler  head  the  idea  is  we  want  water 
 everywhere  and  we  want  the  right  amount 
 of  water  everywhere  and  so  a  lot  of 
 times  you  have  to  experiment  with 
 nozzles  experiment  with  a  sprinkler 
 heads  experiment  with  the  time  on  your 
 controller  or  if  you're  watering  with  a 
 hose  how  long  you  water  difficult  to 
 tell  you  exactly  what  to  do  other  than 
 look  at  it  concentrate  on  it  focus  on  it 
 figure  out  how  you  can  get  that  water  as 
 good  as  possible  and  how  the  lawn 
 germinates  is  telling  you  how  successful 
 you  are  in  that  effort  so  the 
 maintenance  on  this  is  very  similar  to 
 any  lawn  right  now  in  the  beginning 
 stages  of  fall  once  you  get  into  winter 
 it's  a  little  different  because  not  much 
 is  growing  but  uh  right  now  we've 
 germinated  the  seed  or  we're  still  in 
 the  process  of  germinating  seed  about  2 
 weeks  after  assuming  everything  came  up 
 good  we  mow  it  for  the  first  time  and 
 then  because  we're  still  having  pretty 
 warm  temperatures  we'll  need  to  continue 
 to  mow  it  once  a  week  try  to  mow  it 
 different  directions  so  we  don't  call 
 this  cause  ruts  that's  very  common 
 either  after  the  first  or  second  mowing 
 we'll  do  fertilization  with  a  soil 
 Building  Product  like  nourish  biosol  get 
 that  lawn  as  strong  as  possible  as  green 
 as  possible  even  cool  season  grass  goes 
 into  a  little  bit  of  a  semi-  dorcy  so 
 we're  trying  to  Hype  it  up  as  much  as  we 
 can  now  and  we'll  make  sure  it's  getting 
 the  proper  water  and  that'll  be  a  little 
 different  from  The  Way  We  Were  watering 
 when  we  were  trying  to  germinate  the 
 seed  once  we  think  the  seed  is  all 
 germinated  then  we  go  back  to  whatever 
 is  appropriate  for  your  lawn  here  in 
 Fresno  on  November  1  we  can  only  water 
 once  a  week  which  will  probably  be  fine 
 usually  I  say  by  December  one  you  can 
 turn  off  the  irrigation  usually  till 
 about  March  1  because  we  have  some 
 moisture  in  the  air  and  we  have  some 
 rain  when  we  seated  it  we  did  a  heavy 
 application  of  blend  we  went  right  over 
 the  blend  with  penetrate  liquid  bioer 
 and  we  didn't  use  a  top  dressing  both 
 penetrate  liquid  botor  and  blend  help 
 seeds  germinate  faster  and  more  of  them 
 to  germinate  we're  going  to  continue 
 about  once  a  month  to  do  the  penetrate 
 liquid  bioer  because  we're  H  trying  to 
 dramatically  improve  this  Bermuda  from 
 last  year  where  it  just  didn't  do  that 
 well  that  is  a  product  we're  going  to 
 use  through  the  dormant  season  if  you're 
 in  an  area  with  snow  or  you  know  then 
 everything  will  be  so  dormant  the 
 monthly  penetrate  liquid  bioer 
 applications  wouldn't  help  and  in  a  lot 
 of  these  climates  where  things  go  more 
 dormant  than  here  I  would  recommend  we 
 just  wait  until  spring  before  we  start 
 using  the  penetrate  liquid  biot  tiller 
 we're  going  to  do  it  once  a  month  and 
 then  hopefully  we  go  into  spring  with 
 completely  improved  conditions  in  the 
 soil  allowing  this  Bermuda  to  thrive  and 
 the  shade  tolerant  lawn  that  we  planted 
 around  the  Bermuda  to  thrive  the  key  to 
 your  lawn  thriving  is  the  health  of  your 
 soil  and  we  think  the  health  of  your 
 soil  is  defined  by  beneficial  microbial 
 life  in  the  soil  and  that's  the  whole 
 point  of  penetrate  liquid  bioer  it's  a 
 whole  point  of  blend  which  has  optimized 
 nourish  biosol  maximize  in  it  we  create 
 a  lively  soil  where  your  lawn  and  other 
 plants  can  Thrive  without  having  to 
 constantly  fight  pests  and  diseases  the 
 other  thing  that  you  might  want  to  do  is 
 you  know  I  like  to  stay  away  from  any 
 type  of  products  that  aren't  good  for 
 the  soil  but  we  are  coming  up  in  our 
 area  to  a  time  where  if  you  have  a 
 chronic  weed  problem  that  you  can't 
 solve  by  frequent  mowing  proper  watering 
 proper  fertilization  of  the  soil  and  the 
 lawn  that's  the  first  thing  to  try  do 
 everything  right  get  the  lawn  growing  we 
 want  to  create  optimal  competition  for 
 those  weeds  if  the  lawn  is  healthy  and 
 and  you're  taking  care  of  it  properly 
 usually  you  won't  have  a  weed  problem 
 weeds  usually  come  in  when  your  lawn 
 isn't  healthy  but  let's  say  you've  made 
 your  lawn  as  healthy  as  you  can  the 
 least  intrusive  for  soil  if  we 
 absolutely  have  to  treat  with  a  chemical 
 is  dimension  which  is  a  chemical 
 pre-emergent  and  we  don't  want  to  use 
 that  anytime  before  we  do  any  kind  of 
 seeding  or  it'll  keep  the  seeds  from 
 germinating  around  January  15th  to 
 February  1  in  our  area  is  the  right  time 
 to  apply  it  and  it  works  on  a  lot  of 
 weeds  including  crab  grass  and  Oxalis 
 and  spurge  and  it's  pretty  effective  I 
 prefer  it  to  trying  to  spray  to  kill 
 those  weeds  once  they've  come  up  so  this 
 is  an  attempt  to  keep  them  from  coming 
 up  so  they  go  dormant  in  the  winter  and 
 then  we  use  that  preemergent  to  try  to 
 keep  them  from  coming  up  when  it  warms 
 up  this  lawn  has  a  little  bit  of  Oxalis 
 in  it  if  we  really  want  to  try  to  get 
 rid  of  it  that'd  probably  be  we  we'd  use 
 a  preemergent  around  January  15th  that's 
 another  Milestone  coming  up  is  you  might 
 choose  to  use  a  preemergent  in  colder 
 parts  of  the  country  that'd  be  a  little 
 later  into  the  year  so  that's  the 
 formula  that  we'  followed  so  far  on  this 
 uh  backyard  lawn  you  can  see  it's 
 looking  pretty  good  except  for  some 
 spots  we  were  doing  other  work  in  the 
 yard  and  so  we  trampled  it  in  spots  we 
 replaced  the  whole  concrete  patio  that 
 was  all  infiltrated  with  tree  roots  and 
 it  was  causing  it  to  buckle  if  you're 
 interested  in  how  we  replaced  a  concrete 
 patio  because  of  tree  root  damage  we'll 
 be  posting  that  one  soon  so  subscribe 
 and  stay  tuned  we'll  show  you  that 
 process  we  will  continue  to  follow  this 
 lawn  and  show  you  so  make  sure  you 
 subscribe  and  comment  if  you  want  to  see 
 how  this  comes  out  and  how  our  shady 
 areas  merge  into  our  Bermuda  areas  where 
 we  seated  both  peral  Ry  over  Bermuda  and 
 different  types  of  Fescue  over  Shady  non 
 Bermuda  because  nothing  was  growing 
 there

---

 there's  an  awful  lot  of  trees  to  pick 
 from  if  you  want  fall  color  here  our 
 biggest  colors  are  Chinese  pistache  if 
 you  buy  the  Keith  Davy  which  is  a 
 grafted  one  you're  kind  of  guaranteed 
 this  spectacular  orangish  reddish  Leaf 
 color  in  the  fall  Chinese  Tallow  has 
 great  fall  color  probably  one  of  the 
 best  fall  colors  here  gko  tremendous 
 fall  color  even  even  you  know  in 
 climates  like  ours  which  aren't 
 conducive  to  great  fall  color  genos  have 
 great  fall  color  you  usually  bright 
 yellowish  kind  of  known  to  drop  the 
 leaves  in  a  puddle  kind  of  all  at  the 
 same  time  and  so  you  have  this  puddle  of 
 gold  underneath  the  tree  Once  the  leaves 
 drop  if  we  miss  one  that  you  think  is 
 important  please  put  it  in  the  comments 
 below  probably  one  of  the  best  for  fall 
 color  is  American  sweet  gum  botanical 
 name  liquid  Amber  fantastic  fall  color 
 and  there's  different  cultivars  of  that 
 Palo  Alto  and  other  varieties  one  I  kind 
 of  like  that  goes  under  the  radar  it's  a 
 little  bit  subtle  but  nice  fall  color 
 it's  called  a  tulip  tree  but  it's  really 
 a  tulip  tree  called  LOD  dendrin 
 tulipifera  and  that  has  nice  yellow  fall 
 color  some  of  these  Red  Buds  ones  like 
 Mero  what's  the  one  that's  uh  Rising  Sun 
 rising  sun  that's  a  nice  one  a  nice  one 
 all  year  round  and  it  and  it  gets  good 
 fall  color  kind  of  an  endless  list 
 there's  a  lot  of  trees  with  nice  fall 
 color  and  you'll  have  some  variations 
 depending  on  what  part  of  the  country 
 you  live  in  you  know  the  Oaks  not 
 Evergreen  Oaks  but  deciduous  Oaks  which 
 are  all  over  the  country  usually  have 
 nice  fall  color  Maples  almost  all  maples 
 including  Japanese  maple  there's  so  many 
 varieties  of  Japanese  maples  most  of  the 
 more  desirable  varieties  are  grafted 
 those  grafted  varieties  usually  have 
 more  finely  divided  leaves  and  usually 
 they'll  tolerate  a  little  less  Sun  than 
 just  a  green  Japanese  maple  but  almost 
 all  of  them  turn  some  kind  of  color  in 
 the  fall  and  some  of  them  are 
 spectacular  in  the  fall  depending  on  the 
 exact  variety  there's  probably  what  two 
 three  400  varieties  of  Japanese  maple  if 
 you're  interested  in  fall  color  fall  is 
 an  excellent  time  to  purchase  your 
 plants  because  you  can  see  in  the 
 nursery  their  performance  and  it  is 
 possible  to  get  a  dud  of  a  fall  color 
 plant  that's  even  known  for  great  fall 
 color  but  sometimes  they  don't  have 
 great  fall  color  chip  and  I  appreciate 
 you  watching  keep  watching  watching  more 
 I  like  the  people  that  tell  me  they 
 can't  stop  watching  them  watch  them  all 
 the  videos  and  then  tell  everyone  you 
 know  to  watch  all  the  videos  so  thank 
 you  for  watching  this  one  please  like  it 
 and  subscribe  to  our  Channel  watch  for 
 uh  every  Wednesday  when  we  post  a  new 
 one

---

 a  lot  of  the  plants  have  died  or  or 
 weren't  growing  because  all  of  a  sudden 
 it's  become  a  shade  garden  because  of 
 the  growth  of  all  these  trees  we're 
 going  to  use  a  bunch  of  plants  that  will 
 grow  in  the  shade  a  new  irrigation 
 system  a  new  lighting  system  we're  going 
 to  also  try  to  screen  a  street  that  is 
 real  close  tune  in  and  we'll  show  you 
 how  we  do  it  I'm  John  Valentino 
 president  of  John  and  Bobs  here  with  my 
 vice  president  in  charge  of  Renovations 
 chip  Valentino  we're  also  here  with 
 pearl  and  Fiona  who  are  helping  us  in 
 updating  and  sprucing  up  this  existing 
 Garden  around  this  pool  area  nothing  has 
 been  done  for  a  lot  of  years  plants  had 
 kind  of  petered  out  here  and  there 
 mainly  because  this  xylosma  had  turned 
 into  big  trees  that  was  shading 
 everything  and  the  shade  here  is  really 
 really  desirable  because  it's  so  hot  and 
 today  it's  going  to  be  about  100  so  the 
 shade  is  good  but  then  you  might  need  to 
 adjust  your  planting  and  you  can  plant  a 
 whole  new  pallet  of  plants  because  all 
 of  a  sudden  you've  got  conditions  that 
 are  different  than  say  when  it  was 
 landscaped  30  years  ago  when  we  had 
 mostly  Sun  things  like  dog  Woods  will 
 grow  in  Fresno  we're  going  to  plant  one 
 right  over  there  a  pink  dogwood 
 different  plants  like  the  variegated 
 Ginger  two  kinds  of  uh  Japanese  aelia 
 some  Autumn  Ferns  and  and  a  lady  fern 
 some  hydranges  couple  other  things  which 
 I'll  remember  when  I  see  them 
 [Music] 
 so  I  already  placed  some  uh  privet 
 because  they  want  to  screen  that  road 
 that  gets  a  lot  of  shade  but  I  think 
 it's  going  to  get  Western  Sun  when  we 
 clean  up  that  area  just  on  the  other 
 side  of  the  fence  it's  a  little  hard  to 
 decide  what  to  plant  there  because  I 
 toyed  with  the  idea  of  planting 
 something  shade  tolerant  but  I  think 
 we're  going  to  get  Western  Sun  a  lot  of 
 Western  Sun  in  there  first  you  need  to 
 determine  what  kind  of  exposure  you  have 
 so  what  kind  of  plants  you  want  to  pick 
 once  we  knew  we  had  a  lot  of  shade  then 
 you  can  develop  a  list  of  plants  that 
 will  grow  there  and  combine  that  if  you 
 know  the  plants  you  can  see  if  it's 
 something  you'd  like  if  you  don't  know 
 the  plants  you  can  look  them  up  and  now 
 you're  combining  plants  that  you  like 
 with  plants  that  will  do  well  in  the 
 exposure  you  have  I'd  say  those  are  the 
 two  most  important  tips  you  know  we  try 
 to  do  everything  in  masses  Garden  like 
 this  that  isn't  formal  would  usually  do 
 it  in  off  numbers  that's  what  we're 
 going  to  start  out  with  the  Autumn  ferns 
 around  the  Dogwood  one  of  the  things  we 
 don't  want  to  do  since  we  have  sprays  we 
 don't  want  to  put  Plants  right  in  front 
 of  sprinklers  for  instance  there's  a 
 plant  right  here  right  in  front  of  this 
 sprinkler  so  we're  going  to  move  this 
 and  and  just  bring  it  a  little  bit  away 
 from  the  corner  there  and  I'm  kind  of 
 figuring  it  out  as  I  go  you  know  a  lot 
 of  times  we'll  have  a  landscape  plan  in 
 this  case  we  agreed  with  the  owners  that 
 we  just  design  it  as  as  we  went  kind  of 
 pick  some  plants  that  would  work  and 
 then  figure  out  how  best  to  place  them 
 we're  going  to  move  this  Spa  over  here 
 into  this  corner  so  we'll  have  a 
 grouping  of  three  and  then  we've  got 
 three  Autumn  Ferns  and  three  zanadu 
 filodendron  we're  good 
 [Music] 
 there  with  the  look  of  this  Garden  we 
 don't  want  to  plant  things  that  need 
 pruning  they  might  need  pruning  just  to 
 control  them  over  time  but  for  the  most 
 part  we  want  them  to  be  able  to  achieve 
 their  natural  form  I'm  going  to  use 
 these  Ginger  lies  these  are  variegated 
 Ginger  lies  as  a  background  plant  and 
 again  just  because  of  the  informal 
 nature  of  it  we're  not  going  to  put 
 things  in  straight  lines  we're  going  to 
 kind  of  vary  them  in  odd  numbers  you  can 
 see  this  is  a  nice  contrast  in  color 
 with  the  variegated  Ginger  and  then  in 
 front  of  the  ginger  will'll  use  lower 
 things  that  will  fill  in  over  time  so  I 
 I  think  I  will  use  the  rest  of  these 
 ferns  I've  got  both  Autumn  Ferns  and 
 this 
 interesting  silver  lady  which  is  a  neat 
 looking 
 Fern  well  aesthetically  a  lot  of  that  is 
 is  personal  preference  uh  in  this  case 
 you  know  you  do  think  of  color 
 combinations  and  stuff  in  this  case  we 
 have  mostly  green  plants  and  there  tends 
 to  be  more  foliage  plants  that  grow  in 
 shade  we've  got  blue  hydrangeas  and  pink 
 uh  Dogwood  and  those  probably  will  be 
 blooming  about  the  same  time  and  those 
 colors  go  together  well  so  you  can  think 
 about  the  color  combinations  but  most  of 
 our  plants  are  foliage  plants  and  so 
 then  you  just  want  to  think  of  you  know 
 if  all  your  foliage  plants  were  this 
 shade  of  green  it's  kind  of  boring  but 
 if  you  work  in  foliage  plants  that  have 
 different  colors  leaves  then  you  start 
 to  get  something  a  little  more 
 interesting 
 aesthetically  you  need  to  think  about 
 the  Heights  and  the  sizes  of  everything 
 and  then  the  colors  and  then  the 
 textures  and  maybe  get  uh  some 
 combinations  of  things  that  are 
 interesting  visually  not  all  the  same 
 shade  of  green  then  I'm  going  to  do 
 three  uh  hydranges  and  fill  up  this 
 space  for  a  little 
 color  the  other  thing  is  we're  not  going 
 to  do  a  real  dense  planting  we'd  like  to 
 do  a  planting  that  allows  everything  to 
 grow  and  still  have  some  space  in 
 between  the  plants  but  not  a  lot  of 
 space  and  not  much  space  on  the 
 background  plantings  because  we  want  to 
 screen  that  fence  so  those  will  grow 
 more  together  then  I've  got  these  big 
 Japanese 
 aelia  and  these  are  just  the  plain  green 
 I  only  could  find  two  but  I've  got  a 
 couple  of  the  spider  web  ones  that  have 
 the  variegation  that's  kind  of  neat 
 we'll  do  these  as  a  background  these 
 Japanese  aelia  I  see  a  low  quat  back 
 here 
 that's  struggling  to  get  light  that's 
 probably  not  going  to  do  much  um  just 
 because  it  gets  too  much  uh  shade  and 
 then  I'll 
 use  these  here  has  a  screen  to  hide  the 
 the  filter  equipment  and  to  help  with 
 this  screen  of  the  road  we'll  get  a 
 double  screen  here  I  want  to  put  these  U 
 kind  of  silvery  these  variegated 
 Japanese  aelia  in  an  area  where  they'll 
 really  be 
 noticeable  so  we'll  put  them  close  to 
 the  edge  of  the  pool  and  one  of  the 
 important  things  we're  going  to  do  is 
 Infuse  this  soil  with  life  we're  going 
 to  use  all  kinds  of  blend  and  some 
 penetrate  liquid  bioer  which  it's  not 
 really  that  hard  but  penetrate  does  more 
 than  just  penetrate  it  also  is  a  great 
 way  to  add  all  kinds  of  enzymes  and 
 minerals  that  soil  needs  and  can  use  for 
 more  life  to 
 develop  these  one  gon  cars  I  think  I'll 
 use  uh  just  here  and  there  to  fill  in 
 places  that  need  just  a  little  bit  more 
 finish  with  these 
 uh  these  ginger  lily  so  it's  kind  of 
 a  you  know  fairly  simple  plant  pallet 
 Ginger  fendron  fern  worked  in  in 
 informal  groupings  and  we  we  hope  that 
 the  ones  near  the  fence  grow  taller  so 
 that's  uh  about  how  I  would  place 
 them  they  want  this  to  be  a  lush  green 
 area  you  know  easy  to  maintain  um  and  so 
 we  put  it  in  an  irrigation  system  that 
 the  dogs  can't  uh  damage  in  another  part 
 of  the  garden  they  have  drip  system  and 
 they  have  a  lot  of  problems  with  the 
 dogs  chewing  it  up  and  tearing  it  up  we 
 just  used  a  very  simple  system  here  with 
 a  lot  of  spray  heads  you  know  some 
 people  in  shrub  areas  like  to  use  real 
 tall  popups  but  I  found  no  matter  how 
 tall  the  popup  if  the  plant  grows  taller 
 than  the  height  of  that  popup  you're 
 you're  going  to  have  blockage  so  I  kind 
 of  came  up  with  the  concept  that  we  try 
 to  spray  under  the  plants  and  around  and 
 uh  have  water  coming  from  all  directions 
 so  we've  just  used  4-in  popups  and  we 
 made  them  so  there  have  proper  pressure 
 and  so  there's  water  coming  from  all 
 directions  and  then  we're  going  to  put 
 in  uh  lights  here  once  we're  done  with 
 the  planting  so  we  know  what  to  light  up 
 and  that  we  just  ran  wire  and  put  a  loop 
 of  wire  and  then  we're  going  to  use  low 
 voltage  LED  lights  and  uh  we'll  you  know 
 light  up  these  trees  and  and  put  a  lot 
 of  light  around  the 
 pool  now  we  plant  these  plants  we  just 
 placed  and  my  guys  Felipe  and  Roberto  to 
 are  getting  started  on  it  they're  going 
 to  plant  everything  as  soon  as  they're 
 done  planting  we'll  do  kind  of  a 
 finished  grade  and  use  our  um  blend 
 probably  on  the  very  last  thing  when 
 we're  almost  done  we'll  use  the 
 penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller  I  I  don't 
 like  people  to  stomp  over  it  after  it's 
 been  applied  cuz  it  is  live  beneficial 
 bacteria  then  we're  going  to  put  in  the 
 lights  we'll  put  in  The  Mulch  and  we'll 
 clean  everything  up  maybe  a  little  bit 
 more  finish  pruning  and  uh  we'll  show  it 
 to  you  if  you're  interested  in  Garden 
 Renovations  we  have  a  lot  of  them  on  our 
 Channel  check  those  out  they  all  involve 
 improving  the  soil  which  we  think  is  the 
 most  important  part

---

 I'm  John  Valentino  here  with  chip  in 
 this  Garden  we're  renovating  and  I'm 
 going  to  show  you  the  secrets  to  Growing 
 beautiful  aelas  and  having  them  not  look 
 leggy  which  is 
 pruning  okay  so  I've  got  a  story  that 
 goes  with  this  one  time  I  was  walking 
 around  with  a  customer  in  their  garden 
 and  they  had  maybe  15  aelas  I  wasn't 
 looking  where  I  was  going  and  I  tripped 
 on  one  of  them  that  was  right  in  the 
 corner  of  the  walk  and  I  broke  it  it  was 
 only  probably  a  year  old  so  it  wasn't 
 hard  to  break  not  sure  why  but  we  just 
 left  the  the  broken  aelia  there  I  think 
 the  intention  was  to  at  some  point  fix 
 it  and  I  go  back  6  months  later  and  it's 
 the  best  looking  aelia  of  all  of  them 
 because  it  sprouted  right  under  where  I 
 kicked  it  and  broke  it  and  came  out  very 
 densely  and  lushly  and  that  is  a  big  key 
 to  your  great  relief  it  takes  no  skill 
 to  prune  them  you  could  kick  them  if  you 
 want  probably  not  a  recommended  aelia 
 pruning  technique  you  can  use  pruning 
 shears  also  you  can  see  this  has  been 
 here  for  quite  a  while  and  it's  not 
 exactly  the  most  attractive  aelia  but 
 you  can  kind  of  see  what  I'm  talking 
 about  right  here  look  this  looks  like 
 this  looks  like  it  got  broken  sometime 
 back  and  then  right  under  the  brake  it 
 has  all  these  Sprouts  that's  kind  of 
 what  you  need  to  do  on  an  ongoing  basis 
 you  just  cut  these  branches  back  down  to 
 about  where  you  think  you  might  want 
 them  and  they'll  Sprout  under  those  cuts 
 if  you  want  them  to  be  taller  then  your 
 heading  back  Cuts  will  be  you  know  up 
 near  the  tops  of  the  branches  and  it'll 
 Sprout  under  those  prune  it  every  year 
 after  it  blooms  and  feed  it  every  year 
 after  it  blooms  feed  it  with  our  blend 
 and  our  penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller  if 
 you  really  want  to  bring  it  back  fast 
 and  that's  how  to  keep  aelas  Lush 
 blooming  like  crazy  and  not  leggy 
 looking  not  old  and  sick  looking 
 [Music]

---

 bare  spots  in  your  lawn  or  lawn  that's 
 about  to  go  dormant  and  turn  brown  or 
 lawn  that  didn't  grow  cuz  you've  got  too 
 much  shade  this  is  the  video  for  you 
 will  cover  all  those  topics  and  more  he 
 almost  barked  at  the  FedEx  man  oh  there 
 he  goes  oh  my  God  I'm  John  Valentino 
 with  John  and  Bobs  this  is  Chip 
 Valentino  vice  president  in  charge  of 
 over  seating  we're  here  at  a  backyard 
 we're  actually  in  the  front  yard  but 
 we're  here  at  a  backyard  to  overseed  a 
 hybrid  Bermuda  launch  that  has  been 
 struggling  we're  going  to  address  the 
 Shady  spots  where  nothing  has  been 
 growing  stay  tuned  and  I'll  give  you  the 
 secret  on  that  that's  a  little  bit 
 creative  many  of  you  probably  know  that 
 Bermuda  in  this  case  hybrid  Bermuda  goes 
 dormant  as  soon  as  we  get  some  cold 
 weather  so  really  temperatures  around 
 32°  you  can  just  leave  it  nothing  wrong 
 with  leaving  it  that  way  but  if  you  want 
 the  lawn  to  be  green  all  through  the 
 winter  months  November  December  January 
 February  then  you  can  overseed  it  we  are 
 overseeding  it  Alex  is  doing  the 
 overseeding  he  does  the  landscape 
 maintenance  here  and  we  are  using 
 perennial  rye  that's  an  excellent  rye 
 grass  to  use  to  overseed  Bermuda  because 
 for  a  few  reasons  one  it  germinates  very 
 quickly  it's  got  a  nice  look  to  it  it's 
 not  subject  to  pests  and  diseases  and  it 
 does  well  in  cool  temperatures  it's  a 
 cool  season  grass  for  the  most  part  in 
 the  sun  over  the  hybrid  Bermuda  we're 
 going  to  use  perineal  rye  and  we're 
 going  to  is  seated  at  about  8  to  10  lb 
 per  th000  square  ft  we  cut  that  lawn 
 down  as  low  as  we  could  get  it  so  that 
 that  seed  has  soil  it  can  get  into  it 
 germinates  a  lot  better  that  way  than  if 
 you  put  it  on  top  of  grass  blades  I  like 
 to  use  drop  spreaders  when  I  seed  Alex 
 is  using  a  woly  bird  spreader  which  he's 
 U  being  careful  with  it  making  it  so  it 
 doesn't  go  into  areas  that  you  don't 
 want  to  see  our  other  gentleman  is  by 
 hand  going  around  these  Shady  areas  and 
 carefully  dropping  the  seed  in  without 
 hopefully  without  getting  any  into  the 
 areas  where  we  don't  want  seed  to 
 germinate  so  perennial  Ry  does  great  in 
 full  sun  but  it  really  doesn't  perform 
 well  in  the  shade  like  lots  of  grasses 
 in  this  backyard  since  the  trees  that 
 are  shading  it  are  deciduous  the  trees 
 drop  their  leaves  and  let  in  the  light 
 and  the  pral  Ry  needs  the  light  and  does 
 fine  the  problem  we  have  is  we  as  we  get 
 into  next  spring  and  the  leaves  come  on 
 the  trees  those  areas  get  shaded  nothing 
 grew  there  this  last  year  a  really 
 creative  idea  the  most  shade  tolerant 
 lawn  seed  you  can  use  is  a  type  of 
 Fescue  and  there's  several  of  them 
 creeping  red  Fescue  chewings  Fescue 
 surprisingly  they  actually  look  pretty 
 good  with  Bermuda  it's  a  nice  compliment 
 to  a  Bermuda  lawn  and  you  almost  can't 
 tell  it  if  you  do  a  good  job  of  growing 
 these  chewings  and  red  Fescue  and  that 
 is  the  most  shade  tolerant  lawn  you  can 
 plant  so  if  that  doesn't  work  nothing 
 will  work  in  my  experience  it  comes  up 
 good  this  time  of  the  year  I  did  have  it 
 not  be  robust  year  after  year  and  I  had 
 to  overseed  it  either  every  year  or 
 every  other  year  to  keep  those  uh 
 creeping  fescues  the  red  and  the 
 chewings  looking  good  and  dense  but  it's 
 it's  doable  and  it's  a  nice  solution  to 
 a  very  shap  area  with  a  Bermuda  launch 
 one  of  the  interesting  things  is  if  you 
 do  it  this  early  in  the  year  we're  at 
 September  28th  I  believe  it's  still  warm 
 you  can  germinate  cool  season  grass  over 
 Bermuda  without  a  top  dress  mulch  what 
 seed  needs  to  germinate  is  heat  and 
 moisture  and  if  you  wait  till  way  into 
 November  or  something  then  we're  low  on 
 heat  then  we  put  well  some  people  use 
 steer  manure  some  people  use  Forest  Huma 
 some  people  use  wood  based  compost  some 
 type  of  thin  layer  of  a  top  dress  mulch 
 to  create  heat  and  retain  moisture  that 
 is  important  if  you  get  later  into  the 
 season  Alex  is  going  to  do  it  without 
 any  top  dress  mulch  other  than  our  John 
 and  Bob's  blend  uh  so  we're  going  to  use 
 blend  right  over  the  top  I  like  to  do 
 that  because  there's  ingredients  in 
 blend  that  allow  seed  to  germinate 
 faster  and  more  of  the  seeds  to 
 germinate  and  then  we're  going  to  spray 
 penetrate  liquid  bioer  which  also  has 
 some  magical  ingredients  that  has  real 
 impact  on  seed  in  terms  of  making  it 
 germinate  faster  and  more  of  the  seeds 
 to  germinate  because  we  had  General 
 problems  with  this  lawn  once  a  month  I'm 
 going  to  spray  penetrate  liquid  bioer 
 over  everything  as  we  get  into  spring 
 2025  will'll  do  very  generous 
 applications  of  penetrate  liquid  vot 
 tiller  and  blend  I'm  going  to  use  that 
 as  a  way  of  just  rejuvenating  the  lawn 
 in  general  then  we  want  to  start 
 watering  3  or  four  times  a  day  not  for 
 very  long  but  maybe  two  or  3  minutes  at 
 a  time  just  to  keep  that  seed  moist  you 
 don't  need  to  water  the  first  time  till 
 9  or  10  in  the  morning  because  you've 
 got  Morning  Dew  and  you  don't  have  the 
 sun  really  bright  until  about  10:00 
 about  10:00  we  start  watering  so  we  go 
 maybe  10  noon  2  4:  something  like  that 
 whenever  the  sun's  out  is  when  we  want 
 to  water  we  probably  won't  mow  it  until 
 about  2  weeks  after  seating  if  it  comes 
 up  there  just  okay  might  be  3  weeks  as 
 long  as  it's  warm  we'll  probably  have  to 
 mow  it  every  week  but  as  you  go  into  the 
 winter  you'll  probably  only  need  to  mow 
 it  every  other  week  or  so  then  as  we  hit 
 Spring  it'll  start  to  grow  again  and  the 
 Bermuda  will  green  up  and  start  to  grow 
 and  what  we  then  want  to  do  is  encourage 
 the  Bermuda  and  discourage  the  perennial 
 rye  because  we  want  a  Bermuda  lawn  so  we 
 start  mowing  it  low  like  Bermuda  likes 
 perennial  Ry  doesn't  like  to  be  mowed 
 low  when  it's  hot  peral  rice  starts  to 
 die  off  Bermuda  starts  to  spread  our 
 creeping  Fescue  then  will  be  kind  of 
 nurturing  that  along  babying  that  along 
 trying  to  uh  make  sure  it  does  well  and 
 we'll  but  we'll  mow  it  the  same  and  uh 
 they  should  grow  together  nicely  I'm 
 eager  to  see  how  it  looks  and  eager  to 
 show  you  how  it  looks  looks  so  if  you 
 want  to  see  how  this  germinates  and  more 
 than  that  if  this  creative  idea  of  a 
 creeping  Fescue  Bermuda  Lawn  Works 
 Please  Subscribe  also  if  you  think  it  is 
 a  creative  idea  like  this  video  and  uh 
 encourage  us  to  do  more  and  tell 
 everyone  you  know  about  it  we  hope  to 
 see  you  back  here  next  week  we  post  a 
 new  one  every  week  and  we'll  be  showing 
 you  this  one  down  the  road  as  it 
 progresses

---

 chip  and  I  are  here  at  our  new  house  in 
 Fresno  California  that's  modeled  after  a 
 Maybeck  classic  called  the  matthewson 
 home  we're  going  to  expand  beyond  our 
 last  video  where  we  talked  about  setting 
 up  a  program  and  analyzing  the  side  and 
 drawing  a  site  plan  the  next  step  will 
 involve  bubble  diagrams  and  circulation 
 stick  with  us  here  as  we  explain  that 
 all  to  you  if  you  miss  step  one  in 
 designing  your  own  garden  SL  landscape 
 watch  Step  One  before  you  watch  this 
 video  of  step  two  first  of  all  we're 
 going  to  have  chip  do  some  filming  today 
 you  can  vote  again  who's  a  better 
 photographer  chip  or  Brandon  chip  go  to 
 it  get  some  good 
 shots  so  step  two  is  really  bubble 
 diagrams  and  I  offer  that  as  an  option 
 for  you  some  people  might  want  to  skip 
 the  bubble  diagram  stage  but  it's  the 
 classic  way  to  design  a  garden  which  is 
 you  take  that  site  plan  that  you've 
 analyzed  and  you  have  all  your  list  of 
 your  program  which  your  program  means 
 what  you  want  to  include  and  then  you 
 start  drawing  bubbles  to  show  where  all 
 of  these  things  would  work  the  best  and 
 you  kind  of  play  with  the  bubbles  you 
 move  them  around  you  consider  different 
 things  you  know  the  driveway  here  the 
 main  walk  here  the  pool  here  in  other 
 words  you  have  no  mental  blockages 
 you're  able  to  do  this  freely  and  easily 
 and  quickly  because  you  don't  have  to 
 draw  any  forms  so  this  is  is  a  way  to 
 transition  into  the  hardest  part  which 
 is  putting  form  to  all  of  this  to  the 
 circulation  and  such  so  if  you're 
 drawing  just  bubbles  that  should  kind  of 
 free  you  up  to  be  creative  and  to 
 consider  many 
 options  one  of  the  things  you're 
 considering  as  you're  doing  these  bubble 
 diagrams  is  form  follows  function  which 
 is  a  phrase  I  don't  want  to  say  old  and 
 I  agree  with  it  completely  um  but  it's  a 
 little  bit  obvious  to  me  but  I  like  to 
 emphasize  that  in  landscaping  because  a 
 lot  of  time  you  see  landscape  designs 
 that  are  more  concerned  about  say  making 
 it  look  like  Hawaii  or  making  it  look 
 like  the  mountains  as  the  first 
 consideration  so  form  follows  function 
 tells  you  that  the  first  consideration 
 should  be  the  function  of  it  how  you're 
 going  to  use  it  and  that  goes  in  with 
 what  I've  preached  on  this  Channel  about 
 making  Landscaping  useful  allowing  it  to 
 improve  your  life  Lewis  Sullivan  the 
 father  of  skycrapers  is  given  credit 
 with  the  first  form  follows  function 
 utterance  in  an  essay  he  wrote  Frank 
 Lloyd  Wright  was  his  student  and  Frank 
 Lloyd  Wright  summarized  what  Lewis 
 Sullivan  said  with  that  phrase  form  FS 
 function  Frank  Lloyd  Wright  had  a  whole 
 career  of  form  follows  function  and  it 
 also  goes  nicely  with  a  lot  of  of  other 
 landscape  axioms  that  I  really  believe 
 in  and  promote  like  Thomas  Church  wrote 
 a  book  called  Gardens  are  for  people  we 
 want  people  to  be  able  to  use  Gardens  in 
 a  way  that  benefits  their  life  one  of  my 
 other  favorites  Lawrence  halpren  who 
 said  the  great  challenge  for  the  garden 
 designer  shouldn't  be  to  make  the  garden 
 natural  but  to  make  the  garden  so  the 
 people  in  it  will  feel  natural  three 
 very  famous  luminaries  in  the  world  of 
 architecture  and  Landscape  architecture 
 uttered  those  and  they  all  mean  the  same 
 thing  and  they're  all  something  I  really 
 believe  in  and  so  as  you  start  doing 
 your  bubble  diagrams  that's  one  of  the 
 reasons  you  do  bubble  diagrams  is  to 
 make  sure  that  this  design  you're  coming 
 up  with  meets  your 
 needs  bubble  diagrams  include 
 circulations  but  instead  of  drawing  the 
 shape  of  the  walks  you'll  draw  a  bubble 
 and  show  you  know  here's  how  I  get  from 
 this  space  to  this  space  you  can  see 
 what  we've  done  here  and  how  we've 
 gotten  started  so  where  we're  standing 
 is  directly  in  line  with  the  only 
 pedestrian  gate  that  leads  you  to  the 
 front  door  so  you'd  have  kind  of  a 
 bubble  around  the  pedestrian  entrance 
 and  you'd  have  some  kind  of  bubble 
 around  the  walk  that  leads  us  to  the 
 front 
 door  we  would  have  a  big  bubble  we're 
 going  to  build  a  lap  pool  and  there's 
 not  many  places  on  the  lot  where  it 
 would  fit  so  this  would  have  a  big 
 bubble  where  the  pool's  going  to  go  we'd 
 have  a  big  bubble  for  some  kind  of 
 extension  of  the  house  out  into  the 
 garden  with  some  type  of  meeting  space 
 in  this  case  we  have  an  arbor  over  it 
 and  so  that  would  also  be  a  part  of  the 
 bubble  diagram  which  is  made  necessary 
 by  uh  the  fact  that  we  want  shade  and 
 some  kind  of  protection  we  might  have 
 had  our  Arbor  our  main  Arbor  somewhere 
 completely  different  although  since  this 
 house  faces  North  and  it  has  these 
 double  French  doors  it's  pretty  obvious 
 that  you  want  that  to  lead  out  to 
 something  that  wasn't  a  difficult 
 decision  and  your  bubble  diagrams  in 
 many  cases  are  pretty  simple  as  we  go 
 around  you  can  see  how  the  circulation 
 is  this  was  all  on  this  first  bubble 
 diagram  we  just  had  this  as  a  big  bubble 
 showing  you  know  how  you  get  to  these 
 French  doors  to  the  master  bedroom  and 
 to  the  guest  bedroom  and  then  we've  got 
 like  a  little  onen  that  we  wanted  to 
 work  in  here  somewhere  in  onen  being  a 
 
 mineral  bath  we  knew  we  wanted  that  so 
 we  played  with  bubble  diagrams  of  where 
 the  onen  would  be  and  the  relationship 
 between  circulation  and  the  onen  so  this 
 is  before  the  onen  has  any  form  we're 
 just  trying  to  figure  out  where  we're 
 going  to  put  it  in  relation  to  these 
 French  doors  in  relation  to  each  room 
 this  was  not  part  of  the  new 
 construction  but  we  tied  it  in  by 
 Plastering  it  the  same  as  the  new  house 
 this  was  a  650  ft  guest  house  and  on  the 
 back  side  of  it  we  did  a  its  own 
 separate  Courtyard  which  uh  again  we 
 would  just  use  bubbles  to  determine 
 where  we  wanted  that  and  the  circulation 
 isn't  real  complicated  because  there's 
 not  a  lot  of  room  but  again  we  would 
 show  that  in  the  sense  of  a  bubble  a  lot 
 of  the  bubbles  are  self-evident  we 
 continue  around  we  just  did  this  new 
 screen  we're  going  to  grow  a  vine  on  it 
 to  extend  a  very  short  uh  neighbor  fence 
 so  that  we  can  increase  privacy  for  them 
 and  for  us  you  would  have  analyzed  that 
 fence  and  its  shortcomings  in  the  side 
 analysis  probably  in  a  bubble  you  would 
 Circle  that  fence  and  you  would  say 
 extended  fence  but  you  wouldn't  know  how 
 you  were  going  to  do  it  yet  since  it's 
 so  narrow  there's  not  a  lot  of 
 opportunity  here  for  much  in  the  way  of 
 design  but  still  you're  identifying  it 
 you're  identifying  how  you  get  into  the 
 garage  and  how  you  go  out  to  the  street 
 and  where  where  the  gate  could  be  for 
 the  cars  and  you're  identifying  a  main 
 Courtyard  area  in  the  front  again  with 
 bubbles  you're  aware  of  easements  and 
 such  which  is  on  your  analysis  of  the 
 site  so  you  know  where  the  front  fence 
 could  be  in  this  design  we've  created 
 kind  of  a  a  unique  use  of  fencing  to 
 where  it's  all  a  backyard  you  know  it's 
 all  accessible  and  screened  from  the 
 street  we're  trying  to  uh  make  Gardens 
 or  for  people  we're  trying  to  make  it  as 
 useful  as  possible  so  we're  going  to 
 have  seating  in  here  but  at  this  stage 
 this  would  just  be  a  a  bubble  chips 
 bringing  up  the  rear  there  filming 
 things  very  carefully  come  on  over  here 
 chip  then  we're  back  around  to  the  main 
 pedestrian  gate  and  we  look  at  how  we're 
 going  to  get  from  the  gate  to  the  street 
 and  we  look  at  where  guests  will  park 
 that's  a  bubble  we  don't  have  it  all  in 
 yet  but  we  started  the  process  and  then 
 we're  back  on  this  main  walk  which  is 
 leading  us  to  the  front  door  I  hope  you 
 get  the  idea  that  bubble  diagram  part  of 
 the  the  design  is  really  very  simple  and 
 we  hope  it  opens  your  mind  to  be  able  to 
 go  to  the  next  step  in  my  opinion  the 
 hardest  step  is  to  take  those  bubble 
 diagrams  and  give  them  form  but  if  you 
 start  with  the  bubbles  that  should  give 
 you  some  hints  have  you  gotten  all  the 
 best  shots  you  want  to  come  over 
 here  okay 
 okay  okay  he's  ready  I  I  think  he  got 
 all  the  best  shots  I'm  eager  to  see  how 
 they  compare  to  your  shots  so  hopefully 
 this  was  helpful  and  we'll  continue  this 
 series  like  it  if  it  was  worth  liking 
 comment  below  and  subscribe  and  tell  all 
 your  acquaintances  to  do  the  same  so  if 
 you're  stuck  in  the  process  you  go  back 
 to  the  program  your  original  list  of 
 uses  and  your  original  analysis  of  the 
 site  if  you  know  exactly  how  you're 
 going  to  use  it  and  what  you're  trying 
 to  accomplish  and  your  constraints  and 
 your  opportunities  then  that  should  give 
 you  some  ideas

---

 I'm  John  Valentino  of  John  and  Bobs  and 
 this  is  a  quick  video  to  help  you 
 prepare  your  summer  garden  for  fall  and 
 winter  if  you're  interested  in  buying 
 and  planting  anything  because  fall  color 
 is  one  of  your  main  interests  with  that 
 plant  then  it's  very  smart  to  buy  it  in 
 the  fall  you  can  see  exactly  what  the 
 fall  color  is  of  the  plant  and  cuz  some 
 of  them  like  even  a  Chinese  pistache  you 
 can  get  a  dud  fall  and  spring  are  the 
 best  times  to  do  new  planting  cuz  those 
 are  the  m  mest  weather  evaluate  your 
 mulch  cover  that  will  protect  it  from 
 rain  and  from  harsh  weather  some  kind  of 
 wood-  based  mulch  or  compost  about  a  2in 
 layer  is  excellent  fall  you'd  want  to 
 weed  and  keep  the  garden  clean  debris 
 old  uh  seed  pods  old  fruit  those  are  all 
 sources  of  pest  and  disease  that  you 
 want  to  try  to  eliminate  not  necessarily 
 leaves  some  people  like  to  keep  leaves 
 allow  them  to  compost  a  little  and  have 
 that  be  a  way  you  return  nutrients  to 
 the  ground  a  lot  lot  of  people  do 
 overseeding  in  the  fall  in  my  opinion 
 over  seating  can  be  done  in  the  fall  or 
 the  spring  but  particularly  people  that 
 have  warm  seasoned  grass  that  want  it  to 
 stay  Green  in  the  winter  they  have  to 
 overseed  right  about  now  for  overseeding 
 in  the  fall  we  have  an  excellent  video 
 you  can  watch  I  like  to  do  very  early 
 fall  applications  so  we  get  these 
 products  to  work  and  actually  have  a 
 major  benefit  before  they  go  into  dormy 
 in  addition  to  that  feeding  the  grass  if 
 you  like  to  maintain  color  as  long  as 
 you  can  you  need  to  feed  now  where 
 temperatures  are  still  high  enough  to 
 activate  the  products  you're  applying  at 
 the  end  of  summer  usually  there's  not 
 much  to  prune  exception  might  be  things 
 that  are  just  finishing  their  Bloom  cut 
 off  seed  pods  although  even  that  you 
 would  usually  wait  longer  thank  you  for 
 watching  if  you  have  a  question  or 
 questions  leave  them  in  the  comments 
 please  subscribe  to  our  Channel  tell 
 everyone  you  know  to  watch  it  we  need 
 more  views  and  more  subscribers  thank 
 you

---

 so  in  this  Garden  I  picked  plants  that 
 would  grow  well  in  clay  soil  right  off 
 the  bat  the  way  to  change  hard  clay  soil 
 is  to  amend  it  really  that's  a  little 
 off  based  the  way  to  change  it  is  to 
 grow  plants  in  it  and  while  you're 
 growing  plants  in  it  Infuse  it  with  life 
 that  combination  of  life  in  the  soil  and 
 plants  growing  can  change  soil  faster 
 than  any  other  method  we're  going  to 
 show  you  a  yard  with  really  poor  clay 
 soil  so  poor  the  owner  concluded  because 
 everything  he  had  planted  had  died  that 
 the  only  thing  he  could  grow  here  was 
 boxwood  and  Roses  so  that'll  give  you  a 
 tip  those  two  will  grow  in  clay  soil  but 
 many  other  plants  will  it's  more  a 
 question  of  how  you  manage  the  water  and 
 how  you  amend  the  soil  and  how  you  care 
 for  the  whole 
 yard  even  when  everything  was  dying  here 
 they  were  still  able  to  successfully 
 grow  roses  and  there's  some  really 
 beautiful  roses  here  of  all  kinds  tree 
 roses  ground  cover  roses  hybrid  tea 
 roses  Flor  bundo  roses  almost  every  kind 
 of  Rose  there  is  in  every  color  and  they 
 continue  to  thrive  have  heart  if  you 
 can't  grow  anything  else  even  in 
 terrible  soil  usually  you  can  grow  roses 
 as  long  as  you  don't  overwater  them  and 
 you  try  to  give  them  a  little  bit  of 
 care  we  added  plants  that  we  knew  would 
 do  well  with  a  minimal  amount  of  care 
 even  in  heavy  clay  soil  we  used  dwarf 
 Citrus  little  JN  which  is  a  dwarf  bottle 
 brush  plant  little  OE  which  is  a  dwarf 
 Olive  Japanese  blueberry  screen  Boston 
 Ivy  which  grows  on  the  fence  at  Wrigley 
 Field  we  have  a  really  nice  uh  planting 
 of  society  garlic  looking  fantastic  even 
 though  we've  had  a  brutal  summer  mock 
 orange  which  is  doing  reasonably  well 
 not  fabulous  but  it  should  grow  in  heavy 
 clay  soil  on  another  side  of  the  yard 
 they  have  a  lot  of  fruit  trees  almost 
 all  fruit  trees  will  grow  in  heavy  clay 
 soil  you  can  see  on  this  Arbor  Wisteria 
 grows  like  crazy  there  only  year  needs 
 to  be  trained  a  little  bit  to  get  up  on 
 top  they  are  growing  hybrid  Bermuda  lawn 
 which  looks  like  it  was  just  mowed  and 
 maybe  mowed  just  a  little  too  closely 
 maybe  We'll  advise  that  we  raise  that 
 just  a  little  so  it  looks  a  little 
 Greener  right  after  the  mo  but  it's 
 doing  very  well  no  dry  spots  in  heavy 
 clay  soil  Bermuda  will  thrive  in  the 
 front  yard  which  we'll  show  you  a  little 
 bit  we  planted  a  lot  of  uh  things  that 
 are  doing  better  than  I  thought  some 
 cistus  plumbago  there's  crepe  myrtles 
 Vitex  Lantana  so  we've  got  a  nice 
 assortment  of  basic  things  that  really 
 Thrive  even  in  heavy 
 soil  it's  really  not  that  much  of  a 
 limiting  factor  clay  soil  tends  to 
 usually  be  full  of  minerals  and  it 
 retains  nutrients  very  well  and  it's 
 actually  a  good  growing  medium  if  you 
 can  Master  the  poor  drainage  part  where 
 you  don't  overwater  it  unfortunately 
 there's  no  easy  way  to  do  it  other  than 
 kind  of  a  constant  monitoring  cuz 
 everyone's  clay  soil  is  different  but 
 you  constantly  have  to  get  an  idea  by 
 poking  around  root  balls  and  where  you 
 suspect  the  roots  are  of  your  plants  and 
 see  what  the  moisture  level  is  like  and 
 you'd  like  for  it  never  to  dry  out 
 completely  but  never  to  be  saturated 
 either  so  never  to  be  soaking  wet  so  you 
 want  to  water  it  allow  it  to  go  down  to 
 its  deepest  levels  possible  and  dry  out 
 a  little  bit  then  you're  going  to  have 
 to  come  up  with  your  own  watering 
 schedule  for  your  own  soil  and  your  own 
 exposures  that's  one  of  the  things  that 
 you  need  to  be  sensitive  to  is  the 
 different  exposures  try  to  put  those  on 
 valves  where  you  can  separate  them  on  a 
 garden  like  this  I  think  the  lawn  is 
 being  watered  twice  a  week  and  most  of 
 the  shrubs  once  a  week  now  that  they've 
 been  in  a  couple  of  years  but  in  the 
 first  year  they  were  being  watered  every 
 day  in  the  first  few  weeks  and  then 
 every  other 
 day  most  people  and  many  nurseries  the 
 first  thing  they  do  is  use  gy  on  heavy 
 clay  soil  and  gypsum  is  inexpensive 
 really  nothing  wrong  with  using  it  if 
 you  check  back  in  our  video  about  gypsum 
 it's  not  really  the  Miracle  Worker  it's 
 made  out  to  be  it  can  be  very  effective 
 on  heavy  clay  soil  if  that  heavy  clay 
 soil  is  high  in  salt  and  low  in  calcium 
 in  those  cases  then  it  will  improve 
 paracity  dramatically  and  pretty  quickly 
 actually  if  that's  not  the  case  with 
 your  heavy  clay  soil  then  it  doesn't 
 really  do  much  it  isn't  a  Panacea  for 
 just  any  kind  of  heavy  clay  soil  so  you 
 can  either  just  go  ahead  and  use  it  and 
 think  yeah  you  know  it's  not  expensive 
 it's  easy  to  apply  I  think  I'm  just 
 going  to  throw  it  everywhere  and  maybe 
 it'll  do  something  or  you  could  test 
 your  soil  and  see  uh  what  the  conditions 
 are  in  terms  of  salt  and 
 calcium  we  use  all  of  our  products  for 
 clay  soil  they're  excellent  for  clay 
 soil  or  a  good  quality  compost  we  think 
 our  products  are  easier  to  use  and 
 actually  less  expensive  than  a  good 
 quality  compost  so  we  have  very  poor 
 soil  amended  with  blend  which  is 
 optimize  nourish  biosol  and  maximize  and 
 penetrate  liquid  biot  tiller  we  mulched 
 it  you  can  see  we  have  a  nice  mulch 
 layer  here  which  is  compacted  together 
 done  a  nice  job  of  helping  the  soil 
 change  with  the  Amendments  underneath 
 and  fighting  weeds  this  is  a  double 
 ground  Cedar  Mulch  but  lots  of  different 
 kinds  will 
 work  this  driveway  here  was  lined  with 
 Myrtle  which  didn't  grow  real  evenly  and 
 didn't  do  great  and  so  we  took  it  out 
 and  we  put  in  this  dwarf  pink  olander 
 those  have  only  been  in  about  a  year 
 they're  doing  really  well  you  can  see  on 
 the  other  side  of  the  Oleander  is 
 Lantana  white  and  purple  spreading 
 lantas  so  that's  Monto 
 vinis  and  then  Laura  pedum  which  is 
 doing  really  well  so  both  sides  of  this 
 driveway  have  that  same  effect  pink 
 Oleander  with  a  Lantana  and  and  then 
 lower  pedum  and  so  we  kind  of  create  the 
 driveway's  own  little  landscape  here  and 
 then  these  are  vitc  which  also  do  well 
 in  the  clay  soil  you  can  see  right 
 here  is  viburnum  spring  bouquet  chip 
 doesn't  want  to  come  and  then  behind  it 
 we  have  um  uh  Spa  Anthony  water  both 
 real  reliable  clay  soil  plants  they 
 really  are  doing  much  better  than  the 
 last  time  I  was  here  so  it's  uh 
 encouraging  to  see  them  where  did  Chip 
 go  hey 
 chip  come  on  I  don't  think  he  wants  to 
 go  through  the 
 plants  hey  there  he 
 is  here  you  can  see  the 
 plumbago  everything's  looking  reasonably 
 good  for  for  a  hot  summer  day  we  also 
 used  Little  John  in  the  front  yard  on 
 the  side  yards  and  so  those  will  grow  up 
 and  Screen  a  good  part  of  that  fence  if 
 you're  interested  in  seeing  the 
 transformation  of  this  yard  we  have  a 
 video  showing  how  bad  it  looked  when  we 
 started  take  a  look  at  that  video  we've 
 now  got  things  growing  here  so  we 
 continue  to  apply  our  products  once  or 
 twice  a  year  please  like  it  and 
 subscribe  and  tell  everyone  you  know  to 
 do  the  same  and  if  you  want  to  tell  us 
 something  about  this  or  ask  us  something 
 about  it  please  do  so  in  the  comments 
 below

---

 my  favorite  quote  from  Lawrence  Halprin 
 who  said  the  great  challenge  for  the 
 garden  designer  shouldn't  be  to  make  the 
 garden  natural  but  to  make  the  garden  so 
 the  people  in  it  will  feel  natural 
 [Music] 
 what  we  like  to  do  is  not  use  one  plant 
 here  and  one  plant  there  but  come  up 
 with  a  fairly  small  plant  pallet  and 
 then  use  it  in  bold  ways  when  you  Mass 
 plants  you  really  are  affording  yourself 
 a  a  real  look  into  their  beauty  because 
 when  they  bloom  they  bloom  all  together 
 and  uh  and  and  they  make  quite  an  impact 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 [Music] 
 usually  you're  not  going  to  want  to  copy 
 a  garden  you're  going  to  want  to  think 
 about  how  you're  going  to  maintain  it 
 how  you're  going  to  use  it  what  your 
 favorite  plants  are  and  develop  your  own 
 program  of  features  that  the  garden 
 should  have 
 [Music] 
 [Music]

---

 chip  and  I  are  here  at  our  new  house  in 
 Fresno  we  wanted  to  use  this  opportunity 
 to  clue  you  in  on  how  to  start  the 
 design  process  figure  out  how  to  design 
 your  own  garden  we  will  take  you  through 
 from  beginning  to  end  using  my  own 
 prospective  Garden  as  a 
 model  there's  several  steps  to  getting 
 to  a  finished  landscape  design  this  is 
 going  to  be  the  very  first  step  or  maybe 
 step  and  a  half  if  you  like  this  video 
 please  like  it  continue  to  watch  And 
 subscribe  if  you're  not  already 
 subscribed  let  us  know  in  the  comments 
 if  you'd  like  chip  and  I  to  show  you  how 
 to  get  to  the  next  steps  and  eventually 
 to  the  completion  of  a  landscape  design 
 the  first  step  is  a  site  survey  which 
 not  only  includes  a  survey  but  what  we 
 want  to  get  to  is  an  exact  document  that 
 gives  us  the  site  to  scale  so  that  we 
 have  all  the  dimensions  be  better  not  to 
 use  Google  Earth  to  do  that  one  thing 
 you  want  to  avoid  is  make  sure  you 
 understand  what  drawing  a  sight  to  scale 
 means  one  time  a  friend  of  my  wife's 
 wanted  me  to  help  him  and  so  I  asked  him 
 if  he  could  draw  it  to  scale  and  then 
 give  it  to  me  he  said  yes  so  then  a  week 
 later  he  gives  my  wife  a  piece  of  paper 
 and  it's  about  this  long  and  about  this 
 wide  and  he  says  that  this  is  what  John 
 needs  I  can  tell  you  if  you  come  up  with 
 something  that's  that  size  that  it's  not 
 properly  done  a  drawing  to  scale  is 
 going  to  be  at  least  a  page  and 
 sometimes  depending  on  the  size  of  your 
 site  more  sometimes  24  by  36  and  you  can 
 pick  a  number  of  scales  you  can  go  1  in 
 equal  10  1  inal  8  ft  1  in  equal  4T  even 
 1  in  equal  20  ft  if  you  have  a  pretty 
 big 
 sight  the  easiest  way  to  do  it  is  with 
 graph  paper  that's  already  divided  into 
 little  squares  it  comes  in  different 
 sizes  the  lighter  lines  inside  the  big 
 squares  they'll  be  10  that  means  you're 
 going  to  be  1  in  equals  10  ft  or  some 
 have  eight  that  means  you're  going  be  1 
 in  equal  8  ft  and  then  you  don't  even 
 have  to  be  measuring  it  you  just  count 
 it  you  could  use  a  long  tape  measure  you 
 know  you  can  get  100ft  tape  measures  and 
 you  could  just  set  that  down  and  then 
 start  walking  through  it  and  making 
 notations  where  different  things  are 
 okay  here's  the  fence  here's  where  the 
 house  starts  here's  where  the  front 
 porch  start  that  type  of  thing  here's 
 where  the  windows  are  and  just  leave 
 that  100  foot  tape  on  the  ground  you 
 could  use  a  short  tape  measure  you  just 
 that's  just  takes  more  time  and  you  have 
 to  keep  marking  it  mostly  contractors 
 use  a  wheel  but  it's  not  necessary  most 
 homeowners  don't  have  a 
 wheel  the  site  survey  is  going  to  begin 
 the  process  of  accurately  depicting  the 
 entire  site  without  walks  that  comes  in 
 a  little  later  but  we've  already  done  it 
 because  we've  already  been  through  the 
 design  process  so  a  part  of  measuring 
 the  site  and  putting  it  on  paper  is 
 identifying  opportunities  and 
 constraints  in  other  words  constraints 
 are  problems  on  the  site  so  that  might 
 mean  the  house  proximity  to  the  street 
 being  a  constraint  we  want  to  mitigate 
 that  impact  to  the  street  the  security 
 of  the  site  that's  a  constraint  you  can 
 see  our  neighbor's  house  here  is  kind  of 
 open  to  our  view  that's  a  constraint  we 
 want  to  figure  out  how  to  resolve  that 
 we  knew  we're  looking  for  an  opportunity 
 to  put  in  a  lap  pool  so  the  constraint 
 is  you  need  to  find  a  big  open  area  in  a 
 that  isn't  too  big  sometimes  they're  the 
 same  we  identify  a  spot  here  that  is  75 
 ft  long  and  so  that's  an  opportunity 
 views  wind  Sun  these  are  all  parts  of 
 opportunities  and  constraints  we're 
 building  an  arbor  here  that's  connected 
 to  the  family  room  you  know  this  would 
 not  be  a  part  of  the  site  survey  because 
 we  wouldn't  know  where  this  is  yet  so 
 this  beginning  phase  is  supposed  to  be 
 conducted  with  an  open  mind  where  you 
 get  the  site  accurately  picted  on  paper 
 to  scale  and  then  you  make  a 
 program  the  program  includes  everything 
 you  want  your  garden  to  include  part  of 
 my  program  was  a  miniature  onen  I  don't 
 know  if  you  know  what  an  onen  is  but 
 they're  popular  in  Japan  so  you're 
 looking  at  places  where  that  could  occur 
 we  might  want  to  screen  we  talked  about 
 screening  the  neighbors  to  one  side 
 maybe  the  same  thing  applies  to  the  back 
 as  we  look  at  they  already  have  a  nice 
 beginning  screen  here  with  these  uh  Bays 
 we  might  want  to  do  a  little  more 
 screening  maybe  as  part  of  our  program 
 we  say  that  we  want  meeting  areas  or 
 Courtyard  areas  so  at  this  point  you  can 
 see  we  have  it  set  up  for  a  Courtyard 
 area  here  but  at  the  point  we're  talking 
 about  now  we  wouldn't  know  where  the 
 courtyard  areas  are  we  just  know  we  want 
 that  maybe  part  of  the  program  is  we'd 
 like  Courtyard  areas  with  a  variety  of 
 exposures  that  way  different  times  of 
 the  day  you  have  different  Sun  exposures 
 on  the  sidey  yard  there's  a  lot  of 
 constraints  here  we  got  all  this  solar 
 so  we  don't  want  to  block  those  right 
 now  they're  perfect  Southern  Exposure  so 
 we'd  use  small  stuff  here  if  we're  going 
 to  do  planting  you  see  here  we  already 
 have  the  circulation  we  already  have  the 
 driveway  but  in  this  stage  that  we're  at 
 we  wouldn't  know  where  the  driveway 
 would  be  but  we  would  identify  the 
 garage  so  that's  going  to  give  you  a 
 hint  and  then  you  would  identify 
 obviously  the  street  and  the  size  of 
 everything  that  would  give  you  all  the 
 information  you  need  to  to  design 
 something  functional  or  how  you  want  to 
 use  it  we  kind  of  have  come  up  with  a 
 concept  here  that  you  could  identify  on 
 your  program  where  the  front  can 
 function  as  part  of  the  entire  usable 
 yard  you  know  how  usually  Gardens  are 
 separated  into  a  front  and  a  back  and 
 only  the  back  is  useful  for  the  more 
 private  activities  of  a  family  then  the 
 front  is  just  for  walking  through  to  get 
 to  the  front  door  so  what  we  would 
 identify  in  the  program  is  the  ability 
 to  use  the  front  and  the  back  and  have 
 them  connected  in  a  way  chip  and 
 everyone  would  have  access  to  the  front 
 and  the  back  at  the  same  time  so 
 everything  inside  this  privacy  wall  can 
 be  used  almost  like  a  backyard  we 
 wouldn't  know  the  shape  of  it  yet  but 
 that  would  be  part  of  the  program  all  of 
 that  goes  into  the  first  step  where 
 you're  just 
 identifying  all  the  realities  of  the 
 site  and  the  specifics  of  the  site  in 
 terms  of  size  make  sure  your  drawing  is 
 bigger  than  this  a  lot  of  that  then 
 allows  the  design  to  resolve  itself 
 because  many  of  the  things  are  very 
 obvious  for  instance  where  the  driveway 
 should  be  very  obvious  and  you  know  the 
 size  of  the  garage  once  you  know  where 
 the  front  door  is  on  the  house  which  in 
 this  case  is  right  here  then  you  know 
 you  need  some  kind  of  a  circulation  that 
 gets  you  to  the  front  door  you  know  it 
 needs  to  be  connected  to  parking  if  you 
 decide  to  build  an  arbor  somewhere  you 
 like  the  idea  of  extending  the  garden 
 out  from  the  house  almost  like  an 
 outdoor  room  then  consider  the  best 
 opportunities  for  to  do  that  where  you 
 have  spaces  in  the  house  that  are  best 
 expanded  upon  like  these  double  French 
 doors  obviously  that's  going  to  be  a 
 prime 
 spot  in  terms  of  putting  plants  on  the 
 program  well  definitely  you  would  put 
 existing  plants  that's  part  of  the  site 
 analysis  if  you're  after  a  certain 
 feeling  then  you  might  put  one  or  two 
 trees  and  one  or  two  major  shrubs  that 
 you  know  you  want  to  include  because 
 it's  part  of  the  essence  of  the  design 
 in  a  very  limited  basis  address  some 
 planting  but  for  the  most  part  planting 
 is  a  a  step  down  the  road  what  you're 
 trying  to  do  here  is  allow  yourself  to 
 go  to  the  next  step  which  is  creating 
 the  spaces  of  the  garden  and  that's 
 pretty  much  separate  from 
 planting  the  other  thing  you  would  do  in 
 this  stage  is  you  would  analyze  the 
 architecture  of  the  house  or  the 
 building  or  you  know  whatever  it  is 
 you're  designing  for  instance  this 
 Maybeck  home  is  kind  of  regarded  as  a 
 combination  of  Swiss  Japanese  so  you're 
 kind  of  keeping  that  in  mind  we're 
 trying  to  come  up  with  materials  that 
 blend  in  with  the  house  and  you  would 
 identify  that  as  part  of  the  program 
 that  you  want  this  landscape  design  to 
 fit  in  with  the  style  of  the 
 architecture  so  this  is  a  new  house  but 
 all  of  these  principles  apply  to  an 
 existing  house  any  type  of  garden  design 
 the  process  is  the  same  when  you're 
 making  your  program  you're  hopefully 
 being  creative  and  thinking  about  all 
 the  photos  that  you've  seen  that  you 
 like  or  all  of  the  videos  that  you've 
 watched  of  ours  that  give  you  some  good 
 ideas  lots  of  different  places  where  you 
 can  get  inspiration  but  you're 
 approaching  this  very  conceptually 
 you're  not  saying  I  have  to  have  this 
 exactly  if  you  want  to  get  your 
 inspiration  from  ones  that  chip  and  I 
 have  done  we  have  put  together  a  list 
 for  you  below  you  can  watch  these  vide 
 videos  and  hopefully  they'll  give  you 
 some  excellent  ideas  that  apply  to  your 
 own  use  and  taste  did  you  say  everything 
 chip  did  you  cover  it  all  yeah  yeah  yeah 
 I  think  chip  and  I  got  everything  we 
 hope  it  was  of  some  help  remember  this 
 is  just  the  first  step  so  if  you  want  to 
 progress  down  the  road  and  come  up  with 
 a  design  that  meets  all  of  your  needs 
 then  tune  in  to  upcoming  videos  after 
 this  one  if  you  have  comments  enter  them 
 in  the  section  below  Thank  you  very  much 
 for  watching

---

 I'm  going  to  share  some  plants  that  are 
 aesthetically  fabulous  and  also 
 edible  pineapple  guava  is  one  of  my 
 favorites  that  does  great  in  climates 
 like  ours  pineapple  guava  is  really  very 
 delicious  lots  of  herbs  obviously  you 
 know  mint  and  Thyme  and  oregano  most 
 herbs  are  ground  cover  low  growing 
 plants  and  if  you  mix  them  it's  really  a 
 neat 
 look  a  real  nice  landscape  plant  is  a 
 blueberry  shrub  they  have  nice  colors  to 
 the  leaves  in  different  seasons  not  that 
 easy  to  grow  um  you  kind  of  have  to  be 
 in  the  mood  to  Baby  them  and  figure  out 
 how  to  make  your  soil  very  acid  in  order 
 to  successfully  grow  blueberries  but 
 that's  possible  to  do  let's  see  there 
 must  be  other  good  oh 
 um  probably  one  of  the  most  famous 
 edible  plants  that  restaurants  use  all 
 over  the  world  is  nesters  nesters  only 
 grow  in  certain  zones  but  that's  a 
 beautiful  flower  that  we  can  grow  here 
 in  Fresno  a  little  bit  in  the  shade 
 great  edible 
 plant  in  this  Garden  there's  some 
 cumquat  right  around  the  corner  and 
 cumquats  can  be  used  to  eat  they're 
 pretty  good  you  can  only  eat  about  10 
 though  I  think  and  you  might  get  a 
 little  tired  of  them  but  you  could  make 
 a  marmalade  you  know  cumquats  are 
 related  to 
 Citrus  all  the  Citrus  make  neat  garden 
 plants  lemons  limes  grapefruit  tangelos 
 lime  quats  Buddha's  hand  and  every 
 unusual  Citrus  there  is  so  there's  lots 
 of  ways  you  can  use  citrus  and  they  come 
 in  different  sizes  you  can  get  fullsize 
 ones  you  can  get  semi  dwarf  ones  and  you 
 can  get  dwarf  ones  Citrus  do  GR  in  pots 
 and  they'll  stay  in  a  pot  for  a  long 
 time  you  can  use  them  as  a  background 
 screen  which  we  have  done  in  this  yard 
 you  can  use  them  as  a  tree  many  of  the 
 fruit  trees  make  a  nice  espo  I  espo  at 
 my  house  apple  trees  and  I  didn't  do 
 anything  special  except  prune  them  flat 
 so  they  grow  flat  we  have  a  video  about 
 espol  plants  we  tell  you  how  to  do  it  in 
 the  simplest  way  I'm  John  Valentino  with 
 chip  Valentino  chip  is  my  vice  president 
 in  charge  of  gorgeous  dwarf  citrus  trees 
 he  and  I  hope  you  likeed  this  video  if 
 you  did  please  like  it  subscribe  tell 
 all  your  friends  and  neighbors  and 
 relatives  and  make  comments  below

---

 chip  and  I  always  talk  about  soil-based 
 gardening  however  sometimes  people  would 
 prefer  a  synthetic  or  chemical  approach 
 just  because  it  would  solve  the  problem 
 faster  and  more  definitively  so  what 
 we're  going  to  do  in  this  little  video 
 is  talk  about  the  opportunities  to  use  a 
 synthetic  product  to  achieve  a 
 particular  goal  sometimes  that's 
 difficult  to  do  particularly  with  some 
 warm  season  grasses  like  Bermuda  which 
 has  roots  that  are  difficult  to  kill 
 using  a  product  like  Roundup  is  one  of 
 the  best  ways  to  kill  the  roots  but  many 
 people  don't  want  to  do  that  and  if  they 
 don't  want  to  do  that  then  you're  going 
 to  have  to  rely  on  manual  methods  of 
 removing  the  lawn  we  try  to  avoid  using 
 Roundup  and  we  do  avoid  it  uh  in  most 
 cases  but  now  and  then  it's  the  fastest 
 way  to  solve  a  problem  apid  and  white 
 fly  I'd  love  to  use  our  products  blend 
 and  then  a  2-in  layer  of  earthworm 
 castings  is  fantastic  while  it's  working 
 it's  building  the  soil  and  making  soil 
 that  will  resist  those  problems  year 
 after  year  but  some  people  would  rather 
 use  a  quick  systemic  to  get  rid  of  that 
 fast  something  like  Meritt  is  extremely 
 effective  on  apid  and  whitefly  it's  a 
 chemical  you  can  do  a  granular  quick 
 application  of  it  and  then  go  right 
 behind  it  with  everything  you  need  to 
 build  the  soil  as  you  go  into  the  time 
 of  the  year  where  temperatures  are 
 starting  to  get  low  and  you  want  your 
 lawn  to  be  real  green  you  might  want  to 
 use  a  high  nitrogen  fast  relase 
 fertilizer  that  releases  in  cool 
 temperatures  usually  they  call  that  a 
 winter  fertilizer  our  nourished  biosol 
 is  the  best  way  to  have  a  really  Green 
 Lawn  and  healthy  soil  at  the  same  time 
 but  as  high  temperatures  start  to 
 decline  it  gets  less  and  less  effective 
 another  one  along  the  same  lines  you're 
 having  a  party  and  your  lawn  is  a  nice 
 basic  green  but  for  the  party  you  want 
 it  to  be  greener  than  anyone  else  is  on 
 the  Block  once  a  year  or  so  I  don't  see 
 anything  wrong  in  terms  of  a  soil  Health 
 standpoint  of  using  a  synthetic  product 
 high  in  nitrogen  that  releases  quickly 
 we  are  John  and  Chip  Valentino  I'm  John 
 make  sure  you  continue  to  watch  our 
 videos  and  subscribe  if  you  haven't  and 
 let  us  know  in  the  comments  below  if  you 
 have  questions  or  videos  you'd  like  us 
 to  cover

---

 chip  Valentino  and  I  are  here  to  share 
 some  great  plants  for  backyard  privacy 
 we'll  tell  you  different  plant  varieties 
 that  work  great  as  a  green  screen  and 
 what  kind  of  maintenances 
 involve  mostly  we're  looking  for 
 evergreen  shrubs  that  take  to  pruning 
 and  I'm  thinking  of  something  that  you 
 can  prune  and  keep  at  whatever  height 
 you  want  so  xylosma  fenia  poto  carpus 
 macril  many  different  types  of  holly 
 we're  here  with  a  privet  you  can  see 
 they've  pruned  it  into  a  fence  so 
 there's  a  lot  of  flexibility  with  it  for 
 different  spaces  we're  almost  always 
 after  Evergreen  so  that  you  never  see 
 the  fence  you  can  see  this  is  planted 
 right  in  front  of  a  block  wall  fairly 
 minimal  amount  of  Maintenance  except 
 that  say  you  never  pruned  a  privet  it 
 would  probably  get  10  ft  wide  20  to  25 
 ft  tall  now  we're  keeping  it  four  or  5 
 ft  wide  7  ft  tall  that  requires  two  or 
 three  times  a  year  pruning  to  keep  it 
 like 
 that  Jasmine  Ivy  creeping  fig  all  of 
 those  things  if  you  have  a  fence  make 
 good  green  screens  in  addition  to  the 
 fence  but  usually  you  need  some  kind  of 
 support  whereas  with  privet  you  don't 
 need  support  we're  here  at  an 
 interesting  little  garden  where  we're 
 going  to  show  you  about  do-it-yourself 
 trellises  for  screens  and  to  cover  up 
 fences  this  is  also  going  to  go  above 
 the  fence  to  act  as  a  screen  for  a  busy 
 neighborhood  next  next  to  this  Garden 
 check  out  that  video  that  ties  in  nicely 
 with 
 this  so  in  this  yard  we  got  a  great 
 example  of  a  number  of  screens  we  have 
 the  poto  carpus  macril  this  about  uh  I'd 
 say  about  15  years  old  now  and  you  can 
 see  how  tall  it's  gotten  it's  tall  and 
 narrow  so  if  you  don't  have  a  lot  of 
 room  it  makes  a  really  nice  screen  that 
 takes  very  little  maintenance  we've 
 hardly  ever  prune  these  the  only  reason 
 these  tops  have  been  pruned  is  because 
 of  those  wires  and  they've  been  pruned 
 oh  once  every  5  years  or 
 so  you  can  see  a  couple  of  other  plants 
 adding  to  the  screen  one  right  behind 
 the  pool  is  needle  Leaf  Holly  and  that 
 has  never  been  pruned  in  terms  of  on  top 
 so  that's  as  tall  as  it  gets  like  about 
 6  feet  tall  kind  of  a  contained  growth 
 and  a  nice  screen  on  a  lower  level  than 
 the  podocarpus  macro  you  put  the  two 
 together  and  you  have  total  blocking  of 
 the  fence  and  then  views  of  the 
 neighbors 
 houses  in  the  front  is  a  semid  dwarf 
 Citrus  those  create  a  nice  screen  also 
 behind  it  a  privet  that  create  that 
 courtyard  you  got  a  private  space  there 
 between  the  street  and  the 
 house  also  in  that  front  area  is  a 
 tremendous  example  of  a  big  Evergreen 
 screen  xylosma  which  kind  of  like  privet 
 in  that  you  could  keep  that  to  be  a  4ft 
 hedge  if  you  wanted  or  you  could  let  it 
 grow  like  was  done  here  and  create  like 
 a  30  foot  screen  so  for  a  small  yard  is 
 a  small  screen  actually  this  is  another 
 variety  of  Holly  and  this  one  you  know 
 only  gets  about  4T  tall  doesn't  get  too 
 wide  there's  a  lot  of  interesting  Hol 
 one  that  stays  narrow  and  doesn't  get 
 tall  like  pharp  is  called  Sky  Pencil 
 there  are  a  lot  of  varieties  of  Holly 
 that  don't  get  too  big  so  they  would 
 make  a  nice  green  basically  you  want  to 
 find  plants  that  don't  get  real  big  and 
 then  you  plant  them  together  if  they're 
 not  a  big  plant  you  can  let  them  grow 
 their  natural  form  and  create  a  small 
 screen  in  a  small  garden  these  big 
 plants  like  privet  and  xylosma  a  little 
 harder  to  put  in  a  small  garden  because 
 they're  too  big  so  if  you  did  it  then 
 you're  going  to  have  to  prune  it  a  lot 
 but  most  of  them  will  take  to  the 
 pruning  as  long  as  you  do  it 
 consistently  and 
 frequently  really  it  doesn't  matter  the 
 plant  an  effective  strategy  for  noise  is 
 to  try  to  have  more  than  one  level 
 similar  to  what's  done  here  you  start 
 with  a  3  or  4T  screen  go  to  about  a  5  or 
 6t  screen  then  go  to  about  a  10  to  15t 
 screen  and  you're  directing  those  sound 
 waves  up  over  the  area  you  want  to  keep 
 the  noise  out 
 of  the  lowest  maintenance  is  if  you 
 don't  mind  that  style  of  something  just 
 growing  in  its  natural  shape  similar  to 
 these  podocarpus  they're  growing  their 
 natural  shape  but  when  you  want  to  uh 
 keep  it  out  of  the  way  of  things  like 
 this  privet  head  Ed  then  it  takes  a 
 little  more  maintenance  the  ones  that 
 don't  require  pruning  combine  it  with 
 good  soil  treatment  with  blend  and 
 penetrate  liquid  bioer  proper  watering 
 and  you've  got  a  low  maintenance  screen 
 chip  and  I  hope  you  liked  it  if  you  did 
 please  subscribe  and  like  it  and  uh  tell 
 all  your  friends  about  it  and  if  you 
 have  comments  put  those  in  below  it's  a 
 good  answer  more  than  I  thank  you  more 
 than  I  would  expect  now  and  then  I 
 something  uh  now  and  then  I  have  a 
 moment  of  lucidity

---

 we  might  have  to  admit  defeat  they  don't 
 look  like  they're  going  to  get  to  be  our 
 world's  biggest  tomato  we're  here  to 
 evaluate  our  Tomatoes  we'll  look  at  how 
 they're  doing  and  we'll  cut  into  one  or 
 [Music] 
 two  those  dried  ones  are  pretty 
 good  I'm  John  Valentino  president  of 
 John  and  Bobs  here  with  chip  Valentino 
 vice  president  of  tomato  growing  and  all 
 fruits  and  vegetables  and  Oscar  the 
 Grouch  is  here  with  us  today  and  you'll 
 see  why  we  call  him  Oscar  the  Grouch 
 he's  always  in  such  a  bad  mood  we're 
 going  to  switch  from  growing  the  world's 
 biggest  tomatoes  to  Growing  great 
 tomatoes  they're  not  that  big  one  thing 
 is  they  just  ripen  so  fast  because  of 
 the  heat  we  stopped  thinning  them  so 
 we're  growing  more  Tomatoes  now  these 
 are  the  two  big  Zachs  we  don't  know  if 
 they're  going  to  pollinate  but  they're 
 blooming  those  weren't  even  planted  on 
 May  4th  those  were  planted  like  uh  yeah 
 so  about  May  15th  and  they  were  about  an 
 inch  and  a  half  tall  I  couldn't  find 
 this  variety  so  I  just  planted  them  from 
 seed  we'll  continue  to  grow  these  late 
 into  the  season  into  fall  I  think  we 
 might  have  some  good  late  uh  Tomatoes 
 whereas  uh  the  ones  that  are  bearing  now 
 uh  will  probably  stop  bearing  in  the 
 fall  and  then  we've  got  two  uh  mortgage 
 lifters  we've  left  some  of  these  smaller 
 ones  that  are  now  uh  coming  onto  the 
 plant  we'll  go  ahead  and  grow  more  of 
 them  we've  got  a  few  here  that  we're 
 going  to  pick  today  they're  coloring  up 
 we've  got  one  here  that  might  it's  not 
 going  to  be  the  world's  biggest  but  it's 
 going  to  be  really  large  you  can  see  it 
 hasn't  even  developed  color  yet  so  it's 
 going  to  continue  to  grow  and  then  the 
 two  Whoppers  where  we  have  quite  a  bit 
 of  fruit  more  than  we  would  have  wanted 
 if  we  were  still  trying  to  grow  the 
 world's  biggest  you  know  what  some  of 
 these  have  blossom  in  rot  that  is  more 
 prevalent  on  certain  varieties 
 apparently  Whopper  being  one  of  them  so 
 we  picked  those  some  of  them  we  away 
 some  you  can  just  cut  off  the  blossom  in 
 rot  part  and  then  we  allowed  more 
 tomatoes  to  ripen  and  grow  and  we've  got 
 a  bunch  of  them  growing  now  and  if  you 
 look  on  the  bottom  of  all  of  these 
 Whopper  Tomatoes  none  of  them  have 
 Blossom  IND  rot  same  tomato  plant  no 
 more  Blossom  indr  it's  not  all  about  the 
 calcium  in  the  soil  because  the  soil  is 
 exactly  the  same  it's  more  like  the 
 plant's  inability  to  uptake  it  and  that 
 could  be  caused  by  a  lot  of  different 
 things  including  environmental  factors 
 probably  a  hot  spell  or  a  spell  where 
 they  were  watered  too  much  or  watered 
 not  enough  hard  to  say  but  some 
 environmental  Factor  not  a  soil  factor 
 is  the  reason  why  we  had  some  Blossom 
 and  rot  so  this  is  3  weeks  since  our 
 last  video  and  if  you  look  at  the  last 
 one  and  compare  they've  done  a  lot  of 
 ripening  in  that  3  weeks  just  because  of 
 the  heat  we've  had  if  you  want  to  really 
 grow  good  tomatoes  move  somewhere  where 
 your  temperatures  are  more  moderate  in 
 the  '90s  is  good  once  you  get  over  a  100 
 tomatoes  do  have  some  problems  with 
 blooming  producing  Tomatoes  uh  problems 
 just  with  the  viability  of  the  plant 
 Oscar  was  telling  me  he  changed  the 
 watering  practice  he  was  watering  every 
 other  day  and  when  it  got  to  be  so  hot 
 he  was  watering  every  day  now  when  you 
 water  every  day  you  still  need  to  be 
 careful  how  you  do  that  you  need  to  make 
 sure  you  have  good  drainage  and  you 
 don't  have  water  logged  soil  so  it  needs 
 to  drain  well  and  he  has  very  fertile 
 well-  drained  soil  because  we've  used 
 our  blend  and  our  uh  penetrate  liquid 
 bio  tiller  so  are  you  guys  ready  to 
 taste  we're  ready  to  taste  it  all  right 
 we  predict  a  a  delicious 
 tomato  nice 
 looking  you  can  see  that  the 
 color  you  guys  wait  maybe  a  couple  days 
 we  could  have  left  it  on  there  another 
 day  or  two  M  so  let's  see  what  a 
 mortgage  lifter  tastes  like 
 that's  a  very  good  tomato  M  very  juicy 
 but  not  me  has  a  good  texture  shows 
 great  promise  except  it's  not  the 
 world's  biggest  I  is  good  for  a  Mexican 
 salsa  good  for  Mexican  salsa  what  would 
 be  your  recipe  for  to  put  with  the 
 tomatoes  for  Mexican  salsa  onions 
 cilantro  andap  I  think  he's  got  to  make 
 it  for  us  yeah  oh  yeah  next  time  when 
 you  come 
 over  mortgage  lifter  that  we  just  picked 
 first  harvest  what  do  you 
 think  you'd  rather  have  the  hamburger  it 
 goes  on  somewhat  successful  but  uh 
 failed  on  the  world's  biggest  but  we'll 
 we'll  keep  growing  this  one  don't  pick 
 this  one  until  we  come  back  and  then 
 we'll  weigh  it  and  that's  going  to  be 
 our 
 candidate  one  week  later  we're  back  here 
 with  Oscar  the  gra  again  looking  at  our 
 world's  biggest  tomato  Brendan  always 
 tells  me  he  wants  to  include  our 
 mistakes  that  mistakes  make  great  videos 
 and  uh  I  I  try  not  to  make  mistakes  so 
 we  never  have  any  great  videos  we  might 
 have  a  colossal  mistake  here  we  got  to 
 weigh  it  we  brought  the  scale  the 
 world's  biggest  tomato  is  uh  over  11  lb 
 so  this  is  a  mortgage  lifter  very  nice 
 size  we  could  have  let  it  ripen  a  little 
 more  but  it's  it's  nice  and  ripe  there 
 it  is  the  world's  biggest  tomato  are  you 
 ready  for  the  big  moment  when  we  weigh 
 it  what's  it  what's 
 that  let's  try  to  understand  the  scale 
 before  we  say  9.6 
 oz6  of  a  pound  the  world's  biggest  that 
 we  were  shooting  for  is  over  11  lb  so 
 here's  what  we're  going  to  do  we're 
 going  to  document  it  we're  going  to  keep 
 that  in  our  archives  next  year  we're 
 going  to  try  again  we're  going  to  um 
 change  our  techniques  so  a  few  things 
 we're  going  to  do  next  year  we're  going 
 to  plant  them  earlier  we  planted  way  too 
 late  this  year  we  planted  it  in  May  got 
 hot  real  fast  we  want  to  start  no  later 
 than  March  uh  probably  around  the  middle 
 of  March  possibly  even  the  beginning  of 
 March  and  then  more  aggressive  pruning 
 more  aggressive  thinning  we'll  probably 
 plant  more  plants  next  time  so  that  we 
 can  take  two  or  three  of  them  and  really 
 prune  aggressively  for  just  one  or  two 
 tomatoes  on  that  plant  and  um  probably 
 everything  else  uh  the  same  I  think 
 those  two  things  will  make  a  big 
 difference  taste  this  disgraced 
 tomato  so  there's  the  inside  of 
 it  this  is  a  very  good 
 tomato  I  think  this  this  guy  need  more 
 days  we  could  have  left  it  on  the  vine 
 another  week  I  think 
 or  we  could  pick  it  and  just  let  it  sit 
 on  the  counter  for  and  it  would  ripen  we 
 were  too  eager  to  pick  our  a  world's 
 biggest  tomato  if  you  like  this  video 
 like  it  comment  below  and  subscribe  and 
 tell  everyone  you  know  to  subscribe 
 Oscar  thank  you  for  your  help  you  ready 
 for  uh  next  year  all  the  time  okay  so  uh 
 he's  ready  to  go  but  we  got  to  wait  a 
 few  months  I  ate  your  corn  that  you  gave 
 me  last  week  it  was  delicious  thank  you 
 very  much  for  your  help

---

 are  you  having  trouble  with  blossom  in 
 rot  many  people  that  grow  tomatoes  do 
 there's  only  one  thing  that  causes 
 blossom  in  rot  and  that's  a  shortage  of 
 calcium  but  not  always  caused  by  not 
 enough  calcium  in  the  soil  it's  more 
 like  the  plant's  inability  to  uptake  it 
 and  that  could  be  caused  by  a  lot  of 
 different  things  including  environmental 
 factors  too  much  heat  too  much  water  not 
 enough  water  so  the  first  thing  you  want 
 to  do  is  make  sure  that  your  soil  has 
 been  provided  a  good  Cal  Source 
 something  like  boney's  rot  stop  I  like 
 to  use  our  blend  when  you  use  Blend  or 
 when  you  use  our  optimize  your 
 addressing  uh  calcium  in  the  soil  if  you 
 still  get  Blossom  Andro  then  you  know 
 it's  related  to  some  type  of 
 environmental  stress  or  then  try  to  make 
 sure  the  water  is  proper  not  overwater 
 not  underwater  and  hope  for  good  weather 
 shading  uh  Tomatoes  is  something  some 
 people  do  during  times  of  high  heat  sh 
 does  lower  the  temperature  a  little  and 
 help  with  that  environmental  stress  or 
 none  of  the  tomatoes  that  were're 
 growing  had  any  problem  with  blossom  in 
 Rod  except  for  this  Whopper  which  means 
 that  that  variety  is  a  little  more 
 susceptible  to  Blossom  in  rod  and  you'll 
 find  that  when  you  grow  tomatoes  is  that 
 some  almost  never  have  a  problem  and 
 other  varieties  frequently  have  a 
 problem  with  blossom  in  rot  and  those 
 are  the  varieties  you  want  to  focus  on 
 making  sure  your  calcium  source  is  good 
 in  your  soil  and  your  all  your 
 environmental  factors  are  the  as  good  as 
 they  can  be  managed  by  you  I'm  John 
 Valentino  this  is  Chip  Valentino  if  you 
 liked  it  uh  hit  that  subscribe  button 
 and  uh  leave  your  comments  below 
 [Music] 
 [Music]

---

 we  are  at  this  little  backyard  job  today 
 where  we  ended  up  taking  out  an  existing 
 hybrid  Bermuda  lawn  and  replacing  it 
 with  artificial  turf  we'll  tell  you  all 
 about  it  why  it  was  installed  and  how 
 best  to  do  it  and  how  it  lasts  and  how 
 to  maintain  it  and  everything  you  need 
 to  know  about  it  that's  the  point  of 
 this  video  here 
 today  I'm  not  a  fan  of  artificial  turf 
 and  one  big  reason  is  because  of  where 
 we  are  in  a  very  hot  area  and  artificial 
 turf  is  hot  I  think  we  should  be  doing 
 things  to  cool  our  City  not  to  make  it 
 hotter  so  normally  I  I  don't  install 
 artificial  turf  in  this  case  it's  a 
 request  of  the  homeowners  and  there  are 
 certain  situations  where  it  works  out 
 well  in  a  small  area  like  this  that  has 
 a  lot  of  maintenance  issues  I  think 
 it'll  work  uh  good  in  this  instance  in 
 the  past  I've  always  subbed  it  out  to 
 people  that  specialize  in  it  in  this 
 case  uh  we're  putting  it  in  for  the 
 first  time  we'll  put  on  camera  here  the 
 young  man  that's  uh  training  us  so  that 
 we  do  it 
 properly  so  I'm  here  with  il  odoro  who 
 is  training  us  on  how  to  install  this 
 properly  as  per  your  instructions  we 
 took  out  4  in  of  top  soil  with  the  lawn 
 with  the  Bermuda  it  was  a  Bermuda  lawn 
 and  then  we  replaced  that  with  3  in  of 
 uh  base  rock  thank  you  base  Rock  and  1 
 in  of  osed  granite  decomposed  granite 
 and  we  compacted  the  3  in  by  itself  self 
 and  then  we  compacted  the  1  in  of 
 decomposed  Granite  on  top  of  the  base 
 Rock  the  turf  is  going  in  right  now  uh 
 this  is  uh  what  you  can  see  the 
 compacted  DG  you  can  see  we've  got  some 
 sprinklers  in  we've  been  hired  in  the 
 past  to  install  sprinklers  on  artificial 
 turf  because  the  turf  gets  so  hot  in  the 
 summer  and  so  since  we  already  had 
 sprinklers  we  figured  we'd  keep  the 
 sprinklers  and  on  a  hot  day  if  the  kids 
 are  going  to  play  on  the  lawn  you  can 
 just  turn  on  the  sprinklers  for  a  minute 
 or  two  or  three  cool  off  the  turf  and 
 it's  a  way  of  keeping  it  cool  what  was 
 the  next  step  first  step  in  installing 
 the  turf  would  be  rolling  it  out 
 inspecting  it  for  any  type  of  actual 
 manufacturer  defects  uh  most  importantly 
 making  sure  that  the  grain  of  the  blades 
 are  going  in  the  same  exact  Direction 
 cuz  you  have  more  than  one  piece  correct 
 so  we  in  this  case  we  had  two  pieces  two 
 pieces  that's  right  so  two  pieces  we  had 
 to  make  sure  that  they  were  both  facing 
 the  same  exact  Direction  otherwise  it 
 looks  like  two  completely  different 
 products  after  that  what  we  did  was  we 
 secured  our  seam  seam  being  the  most 
 important  thing  cuz  you  wanted  to  look 
 seemingless  like  one  you  don't  want  to 
 see  the  seam  that's  right  so  how  did  you 
 secure  the  seam  so  we  secured  the  seam 
 with  Nails  in  this  particular  area  Nails 
 every  4  in  diagonal  next  to  each  other 
 going  all  the  way  down  the  seam  so  then 
 that  way  there's  no  ripping  it  apart  no 
 pulling  it  apart  is  it  sometimes  glued 
 at  the  same  or  is  it  always  sometimes 
 Glu  is  US  sometimes  it's  glued  as  well 
 depending  on  the  application  a  of  where 
 it's  going  but  in  a  really  high  traffic 
 area  you're  going  to  want  to  use  the 
 glue  and  the 
 nails  so  you  secure  the  seam  and  then  we 
 start  trimming  after  that  on  these  sides 
 uh  the  reason  for  it  is  if  we  do  make  a 
 mistake  on  the  seam  we  still  have  excess 
 material  to  work  with  that  we  can  come 
 back  in  readjust  the  seam  secure  the 
 seam  make  sure  that  it's  good  start  the 
 trimming  process  and  then  start  the 
 nailing  process  after 
 that  when  you  say  you're  going  to  detail 
 it  what  is  that  so  detailing  on  the 
 Synthetic  Turf  pretty  much  means  like  in 
 this  particular  instance  since  we  have 
 sprinklers  so  we  want  to  make  sure  that 
 we're  cutting  around  the  sprinklers  make 
 sure  that  it's  a  nice  Cut  allows  for  the 
 sprinkler  to  pop  up  pop  down  also  in 
 certain  areas  where  we  look  at  it  and 
 the  turf  is  kind  of  going  up  we  want  to 
 make  sure  that  we're  trimming  and 
 adjusting  for  it  so  it's  nice  and 
 flushed  here  we're  doing  something  a 
 little  different  than  we  normally  would 
 there  is  a  slope  uh  to  the  backyard  in 
 order  to  make  that  slope  less  we're 
 using  some  steel  edging  as  a  little 
 retaining  wall  we're  going  to  paint  that 
 steel  edging  dragon  breath  so  that  it 
 looks  similar  to  the  wall  behind  it 
 which  is  made  out  of  concrete  block  and 
 that  allows  us  to  get  that  uh  artificial 
 turf  more  of  a  flat 
 surface  so  after  you  detail  it  then  you 
 say  you  brush  it  correct  and  what's  the 
 purpose  of  the  brushing  the  purpose  of 
 the  brushing  is  to  allow  the  blades  to 
 come  all  the  way  up  so  they're  flat  when 
 you  start  brushing  them  they'll  come  all 
 the  way  up  and  once  they  come  all  the 
 way  up  it  will  allow  the  sand  to  go  in 
 there  a  lot  easier  and  and  what  the  sand 
 does  is  it  helps  it  weigh  it  down  so 
 that  we  don't  get  bubbles  in  the  future 
 this  particular  sand  that  we're  using  in 
 this  one  has  antimicrobial  and 
 antibacterial  coatings  on  there  to 
 prevent  mold  and  prevent  mildew  as  well 
 happening  particularly  if  there's  going 
 to  be  kids  or  pets  playing  around  how  do 
 you  apply  the  sand  so  the  sand  we're 
 going  to  be  using  a  drop  spreader  to 
 make  sure  that  we  spread  it  out  evenly 
 and  there's  no  bumps  no  hails  of  it  so 
 then  once  the  Sand's  on  then  you  use 
 some  kind  of  a  machine  to  broom  again  to 
 it's  a  broom  yes  sir  it's  a  power  broom 
 power  broom  what  it  does  is  it'll  also 
 help  out  that  sand  that's  stuck  in 
 certain  places  to  help  it  move  and 
 actually  spread  out  even 
 more  what's  the  key  to  uh  proper 
 maintenance  of  it  again  it's  going  to  be 
 depending  on  the  application  so  for 
 example  if  you're  going  to  be 
 consistently  walking  on  it  you  want  to 
 probably  come  out  and  brush  it  up  once  a 
 quarter  once  every  3  months  depending  on 
 how  often  you're  going  to  be  using  it  um 
 if  you're  going  to  be  having  pets 
 recommended  to  H  it  down  at  least  once  a 
 week  when  it  comes  time  to  brush  an  it 
 for  maintenance  you  can  use  a  regular 
 push  Brom  and  a  little  bit  of  elbow 
 grease  and  it'll  help  you  get  right  the 
 job  done  let's  say  we  were  doing  a 
 little  job  like  this  and  we  didn't  have 
 a  power  broom  you  you're  saying  you  can 
 just  do  it  with  a  broom  could  do  it  with 
 the  broom  typically  for  the  first 
 install  I  always  recommend  a  power  broom 
 just  because  it's  really  going  to  make  a 
 big  difference  how  long  should  it  last 
 Synthetic  Turf  nowadays  is  lasting  you 
 anywhere  from  15  to  20  years  there's 
 some  turs  that  will  last  you  in  the  22 
 25  year  range  depending  on  how  you're 
 using  it  where  it's  where  it's  installed 
 depending  on  the  heat  different 
 variables  will  will  determine  how  long 
 it'll  last  eliodoro  thank  you  very  much 
 for  your  information  thank  you  John 
 thank  you  for  being  letting  me  be  here 
 you  know  we'll  get  to  it 
 okay  that's  how  you  install  artificial 
 turf  thank  you  for  watching  if  you  have 
 questions  put  it  in  the  comments  below

---

 our  premise  today  is  easily  conveniently 
 in  a  lightweight  way  filling  a  planter 
 with  soil  so  that  you  don't  have  to  Lug 
 big  piles  of  anything 
 around  I'm  John  Valentino  president  of 
 John  and  Bobs  I'm  a  landscape  architect 
 and  a  lscape  contractor  I'm  here  with  my 
 vice  president  in  charge  of  container 
 gardening  chip  Valentino  he's  going  to 
 smell  the  basil  we're  here  at  a  little 
 raised  planter  built  for  convenience  for 
 my  mom  who's  over  90  this  minimizes 
 having  to  do  a  lot  of  bending  down  over 
 the  years  this  had  decreased  in  the 
 level  of  the  soil  and  it  brought  to  mind 
 a  product  that  I've  used  quite  a  bit  I 
 even  toured  the  facility  where  it's  made 
 and  I'm  very  impressed  with  it  she 
 without  knowing  anything  about  this 
 expandable  soil  that  comes  in  bricks 
 ordered  just  a  standard  coconut  core  one 
 you  add  water  to  this  and  it  expands 
 into  something  that  can  fill  this 
 planter  which  is  extremely  convenient  I 
 like  this  wond  soil  because  it  has 
 actually  a  lot  of  the  ingredients  we 
 used  in  our  own  products  kelp  microa 
 macronutrients  micronutrients  humic  acid 
 all  of  that  is  in  these  little  bricks 
 which  we're  going  to  show  you  how  they 
 work  you  just  add  water  and  it  expands 
 into  a  fertile  immediately  usable 
 potting  soil  that's  easy  to  carry  around 
 and  easy  to 
 ship  so  we're  going  to  wet  the  wond  so 
 soil  and  allow  it  to 
 expand  get  the  water  to  penetrate 
 it  I'm  going  to  go  ahead  and  do  all 
 three  cuz  I  can  tell  we  need  about  one 
 cubic  foot  in 
 here  since  three  bricks  does  one  cubic 
 foot  then  you  need  to  calculate  what  you 
 need  cubic  feet  is  calculated  length  * 
 width  time  depth  1  cubic  foot  is  1x  1  by 
 one  if  you  have  a  round  pot  then  it's 
 more  complicated  to  calculate  but  I'm 
 sure  you  can  do  it  the  square  footage  of 
 the  round  area  times  the  depth  and  you 
 all  know  how  you  get  the  square  footage 
 of  the  round  area  is  pi  r  squar  you're 
 going  to  need  to  have  some  familiarity 
 with  cubic  feet  uh  to  know  how  much  you 
 need  they  take  a  while  to  break  down  you 
 have  to  moisten  them  and  then  after  they 
 get  wet  they  break  up  a  little  easier 
 and  then  they  start  breaking  down  better 
 a  good  practice  is  where  the  new  soil 
 meets  the  existing  soil  you  try  to  blend 
 those  together  so  there's  not  an 
 interface  and  an  interface  creates  Poe 
 drainage  you  can  see  this  is  starting  to 
 expand  and  break 
 down  yeah  it's  just  about  perfect 
 cubic  foot  is  really  not  that  much  so  if 
 you  need  big  quantities  of  potting  soil 
 um  the  bricks  aren't  very  practical  but 
 in  small  quantities  of  potting  soil  very 
 practical  and  very  convenient  there'll 
 be  an  Amazon  Link  in  the  description  so 
 you  can  conveniently  buy  uh  wond  soil 
 perfect  for  topping  off  in  this 
 gardening  plot  here  she  told  me  about 
 her  desire  for  Basil  so  I  had  some  basil 
 in  our  garden  at  the  shop  so  I  just  dug 
 it  up  the  one  that  I  got  a  lot  of  soil 
 with  looks  like  it  looked  in  the  ground 
 the  one  that  I  didn't  get  a  lot  of  soil 
 in  you  can  see  is  wilting  a  lesson  that 
 most  of  you  probably  already  know  it's 
 important  to  try  to  moisten  that  area 
 where  you're  going  to  dig  it  up  and  get 
 that  soil  to  stay  around  the  roots 
 everything  you  need  in  terms  of  soil 
 Improvement  and  in  terms  of  nutrients 
 everything's  in  the  blend  on  new 
 planting  I  always  like  for  the  blend  to 
 touch  the  roots  whether  it's  a 
 transplant  or  whether  it's  a  container 
 that's  been  there  a  long  time  the  reason 
 for  that  is  we  have  micara  in  here  and 
 the  micara  is  effective  when  touching 
 the  roots  and  in  digging  this  we  get 
 down  to  the  existing  potting  soil  I'm 
 going  to  mix  that  together  pretty  well 
 normally  you  would  roll  this  but  I  just 
 put  this  in  here  yesterday  so  you  can 
 see  it's  mostly  just 
 roots  and  I  don't  I  get  a  lot  of 
 questions  about  putting  Blend  or 
 anything  in  the  bottom  of  the  ho  hole 
 I'm  not  a  big  fan  of  putting  it  in  the 
 bottom  of  the  hole  because  most 
 microbiology  and  soil  is  in  the  top  inch 
 or  two  and  that's  what  we're  promoting 
 here  is  microbiology  but  if  we  put  it  at 
 the  bottom  then  water  comes  and  just 
 leeches  it  through  bit  around  there 
 start  to  fill  it  then  we  use  our 
 blend  you  know  one  gallon  like  this  you 
 use  one  to  two  cups  in  a  five  gallon  you 
 use  about  3  cups  and  a  15  gallon  You' 
 use  about  five  cups  of  blend 
 okay  and  then  my  mom  can  plant  something 
 else  in  the  other 
 side  if  you  liked  my  vice  president  in 
 charge  of  container  gardening's  idea  on 
 this  video  please  let  us  know  in  the 
 comments  below  or  if  you  have  questions 
 or  if  you  didn't  like  it  you  can  let  us 
 know  we  thank  you  very  much  for 
 watching  then  we're  going  to  water 
 these  very 
 lightly  we'll  wash  off  the  leaves 
 and  this  should  be  ready  for  this  uh 
 almost  100°  day

---

 we  were  here  3  weeks  ago  the  difference 
 is  pretty  astonishing  lots  of  tomatoes 
 on  there  now  there  were  none  before 
 we're  having  very  hot  weather  today  we 
 want  to  go  light  on  the  pruning  cuz  we 
 want  the  leaves  to  protect  them  from  the 
 heat  we're  going  to  show  you  some  issues 
 that  we've  had  Oscar's  going  to  do  some 
 thinning  of  the  fruit  we'll  be  answering 
 your  comments  from  the  past  videos  we 
 did  Growing  the  world's  biggest  tomato 
 so  let's  do  an 
 update  I'm  John  Valentino  president  of 
 John  and  Bobs  here  with  chip  Valentino 
 vice  president  in  charge  of  uh  growing 
 big  Tomatoes  uh  Oscar  the  Grouch  is  here 
 also  and  he's  using  blend  to  grow 
 beautiful  berries  and  corn  and  grapes 
 and  watermelon  and  cantaloupes  and 
 tomatoes  and  all  kinds  of  things  growing 
 here  we  are  uh  concerned  about  heat 
 Tomatoes  obviously  like  heat  but  they 
 don't  really  like  intense  heat  which  we 
 have  here  so  we  want  to  protect  them  we 
 want  to  shade  them  and  we'll  do  that  by 
 not  doing  a  lot  of  pruning  some  people 
 even  put  shade  cloth  over  them  we're 
 going  to  shade  them  with  their  own 
 leaves  Oscar  is  watering  them  every 
 other  day  with  drip  irrigation  if  you 
 don't  have  drip  uh  and  you're  spraying 
 the  leaves  we  want  to  keep  water  off  of 
 them  while  it's  real  hot  watering  them 
 early  in  the  morning  right  before  the 
 sun  comes  out  that's  perfect  timing  and 
 Oscar  Waters  the  whole  garden  at  that 
 time  and  that's  also  when  he  starts  his 
 week  weekly  application  of  penetrate 
 liquid 
 bioer  some  of  you  have  been  asking  why 
 what's  the  idea  penetrate  liquid  bioer 
 has  lots  of  things  in  it  that  allow 
 plants  to  thrive  that  we  Market  as  a 
 soil  softener  because  it  is  a  soil 
 softener  also  and  it'll  make  your  soil  a 
 lot  more  porous  those  aren't  the  issues 
 here  we're  kind  of  using  it  as  a  plant 
 enhancer  but  it  fertilizes  with  subtle 
 type  uh  plant  Nutri  nutrients  that  help 
 plants  Prosper  if  we're  trying  to  get 
 tomatoes  to  produce  as  much  as  possible 
 we  want  to  maximize  the  health  of  the 
 tomato  and  that  beneficial  bacteria  with 
 food  for  the  bacteria  that  we  call 
 penetrate  liquid  bioer  is  an  excellent 
 way  to  do  that  it  also  is  improving  the 
 soil  while  we're  using  it  Oscar  was 
 telling  me  he  found  some  caterpillar  and 
 and  caterpillar  damage  on  some  of  the 
 tomatoes  you  can  see  the  holes  in  the 
 leaves  when  we  see  that  kind  of  damage 
 you  want  to  immediately  pull  off  any 
 Invader  that  you  can  find  that's  the 
 first  step  or  if  you  can't  see  them  you 
 could  spray  with  a  couple  of  things  we 
 would  want  something  organic  that  is 
 fine  to  spray  on  fruits  and  vegetables 
 Oscar  sprayed  with  BT  which  is  an 
 excellent  organic  beneficial  bacteria  BT 
 stands  for  basilis  thinis  you  could  also 
 use  our  product  that  we  call  enviral 
 repel  40  It's  relatively  effective  on 
 Invaders  like  this  I'd  use  it  yeah  once 
 a  week  until  you  see  no  more  sign  of 
 damage  those  are  two  good  products  that 
 you  could  use  but  you  want  to  keep  it 
 organic  both  those  products  are  good  for 
 the  soil  so  the  whole  idea  of  anytime  we 
 treat  for  pest  or  disease  we  want  to 
 treat  with  something  that's  good  for  the 
 soil  because  we  believe  that  the  soil 
 has  a  way  of  preventing  that  those  types 
 of  Invaders  in  the 
 future  our  big  Zachs  grew  like  crazy  and 
 they're  just  starting  to  bloom  they 
 don't  have  any  fruit  because  as  I 
 explained  last  time  I  couldn't  find  any 
 big  Zach  we  ended  up  having  to  grown 
 from  seed  and  it  was  late  in  the  season 
 and  so  we  planted  really  tiny  little 
 what  were  they  an  inch  maybe  they've 
 grown  a  lot  doing  well  and  then  we've 
 got  the  two  mortgage  lifters  and  the  two 
 who 
 Oscar  is  going  to  show  us  how  we're 
 going  to  thin  the  crop  we  don't  want  to 
 grow  a  lot  we  just  want  to  grow  a  few 
 really  big  tomatoes  so  we've  agreed  that 
 we're  going  to  keep  only  about  a  third 
 we're  not  going  to  do  much  pruning  as  we 
 said  we  want  them  to  continue  to  grow  to 
 protect  themselves  from  the  heat  for  now 
 we're  going  to  allow  them  to  still  Bloom 
 we'll  see  what  happens  so  that's  our 
 strategy  we  we  try  to  grow  the  biggest 
 tomato  we  will  try  to  grow  only  six  or 
 seven  so  we  will  try  to  to  LIF  the 
 healthy  ones  for  example  this  one  we 
 will  cut  the  small 
 one  and  leave  the  big 
 one  same  thing  on  this 
 one  so  you're  going  to  do  that  same 
 thing  on  all  of  them  um  when  Oscar  prune 
 he  targeted  the  tomatoes  that  are  more 
 on  the  outside  so  that  they  get  Sun  and 
 light  where  they  have  the  best  growing 
 conditions  and  we  didn't  leave  any 
 tomatoes  on  the  very  inside  where  they 
 would  be 
 shaded  we  get  interesting  comments  which 
 we  welcome  one  was  about  our  cages  that 
 Gardener  mentioned  that  they  didn't  use 
 the  stakes  instead  they  embedded  the 
 wire  cage  in  the  ground  by  uh  removing  a 
 couple  rows  of  the  wire  that  goes  across 
 and  that's  similar  to  if  you  buy  them 
 online 
 you  don't  stake  them  like  this  and 
 that's  excellent  nothing  wrong  with  that 
 I  like  that  method  especially  if  it 
 works  we've  tested  it  over  the  years  and 
 we  found  that  tomatoes  are  very  heavy 
 feeders  we  found  better  performance  of 
 the  tomatoes  by  using  a  larger  amount 
 than  we  get  that's  only  in  the  blend  and 
 I  just  do  it  at  in  the  beginning  and  I 
 think  it  works  great  especially  if  you 
 use  enough  to  start  with  and  nourished 
 biosol  you  know  it  does  break  down 
 pretty  slowly  and  so  I  find  that  that 
 nourishes  it  over  a  long 
 period  one  of  our  astute  viewers  said 
 why  not  prune  off  all  of  the  flowers  and 
 all  of  the  fruit  leaving  one  single 
 tomato  per  Vine  wouldn't  that  be  the  way 
 to  grow  the  biggest  tomato  I  think 
 that's  true  and  that  is  the  method 
 that's  usually  used  by  people  that  are 
 trying  to  grow  the  world's  biggest 
 tomato  and  we'd  like  to  grow  the  world's 
 biggest  tomato  but  we'd  like  to  grow 
 more  than  one  at  a  time  so  that  we  have 
 a  few  Tomatoes  but  it  still  will 
 demonstrate  the  methods  by  which  you  can 
 grow  really  big  Tomatoes  your  point  is  a 
 good  one  we'd  like  to  have  a  few  more 
 than  that  so  that  we  can  actually  use 
 them  I've  heard  that  but  I  don't  I  don't 
 know  if  it's  true  or  not  I  think  I  have 
 tried  it  but  you  know  it's  hard  to  know 
 because  unless  you  do  side  by  side  one 
 on  its  side  and  one  not  on  its  side  but 
 in  general  I  haven't  been  planting  them 
 on  their  side  would  anyone  want  to  watch 
 if  we  planted  uh  next  year  some  on  their 
 side  and  some  side  by  side  not  on  their 
 side  and  see  if  we  have  any  difference 
 in  performance  let  us  know  in  the 
 comments  below  so  you're  impressed  with 
 your  crop  even  though  you  wish  you  would 
 have  planted  them  a  little  earlier  yeah 
 how  old  they  are  no  more  than  2  months 
 yeah  and  you  can  see  that  how  healthy 
 they  are  you  must  know  what  you're  doing 
 well  you  want  the 
 master  I  don't  know  about  that  but  it's 
 working  we  got  a  great  crop  great  tomato 
 plants  and  beautiful  tomatoes  so  um  we 
 think  it's  a  system  that  works  really 
 well  we  hope  you  enjoyed  it  make  sure 
 you  subscribe  and  encourage  others  to 
 subscribe  and  watch  our  videos  and  to 
 like  them  we're  going  to  check  back  here 
 with  Oscar  in  about  3  weeks  let  us  know 
 in  the  comments  below  if  there's 
 something  particular  you'd  like  us  to 
 cover  or  or  talk  about  when  we  have  our 
 next  progress  check

---

 we're  at  Fresno  chaffy  zoo  and  we're 
 going  to  look  at  one  of  the  projects 
 that  we're  working  on  right  now  we're 
 going  to  describe  what  went  into  the 
 planting  and  give  you  a  sense  of  what 
 it's  like  to  landscape  an  Asian  exhibit 
 at  the 
 [Music] 
 zoo  I  made  it  chip  has  a  lion  phobia  so 
 he  didn't  come  with  me  but  Brandon  can 
 put  some  shots  of  him  so  that  we  can 
 still  feel  his 
 presence  we're  here  on  the  roof  of  a 
 structure  that  used  to  House  Asian 
 elephants  the  elephant  exhibit  now  is 
 being  retrofitted  into  a  completely 
 different  kind  of  exhibit  we  just  heard 
 a  rundown  of  what's  going  to  be  here  and 
 the  only  one  we  can  remember  right  now 
 is 
 tapers  we're  going  to  use  the  roof  here 
 to  overlook  the  exhibit  and  show  you 
 kind  of  the  ins  side  operation  of  our 
 work  we  want  this  to  look  jungly  and 
 natural  and  we  want  these  plants  to  grow 
 like  crazy  and  fill  in  like  crazy 
 because  that's  how  we're  going  to  have 
 the  right  Ambiance  appropriate  for  a  zoo 
 exhibit  so  that's  what  we're  trying  to 
 do  here  is  remind  ourselves  very 
 strongly  of  nature  the  planting  and  the 
 soil  is  Paramount  here  none  of  the 
 plants  have  been  able  to  grow  yet  so 
 everything  is  a  little  sparse  and  small 
 although  it's  heavily  planted  these  have 
 only  been  planted  a  month  or  two  right 
 now  but  what  we  hope  is  we  go  into 
 spring  in  this  first  spring  we  can  get  a 
 real  flush  of 
 growth  there's  a  focus  here  on  Asian 
 plants  in  terms  of  their  native  habitat 
 and  that  was  by  Design  because  it's  an 
 Asian  exhibit  now  and  then  something  was 
 used  that  isn't  native  to  Asia  but  most 
 of  the  plants  are  native  to  Asia  star 
 jasmine 
 bgan 
 vilia  lots  of  bamboo  of  different 
 kinds  there's  a  type  of 
 Arbutus  sge  genus  Bean 
 Carrick  ginger 
 lily  a  couple  different  kinds  of  Palms 
 bananas  we've  got  a  little  bit  of 
 creeping 
 [Music] 
 fig  little  bit  of  Mahonia  soft 
 caress  three  or  four  different  varieties 
 of 
 canaly  so  this  is  an  example  of  what 
 we're  doing  in  a  lot  of  spots  here  and 
 that  is  using  Vines  to  Cascade  over 
 walls  and  Vines  to  grow  up  walls  in 
 order  to  do  that  uh  we  used  a  lot  of 
 welded  wire  very  heavy  duty  welded  wire 
 which  we  painted  dragon's  breath  to 
 blend  in  with  the  colors  of  this 
 artificial  concrete  walls  built  all  over 
 the  zoo  some  of  them  already  existed 
 here  because  it  was  an  elephant  exhibit 
 and  some  of  them  are  new  you  know 
 there's  been  a  lot  of  publicity  recently 
 about  these  beautiful  living  walls  which 
 are  kind  of  a  um  engineering  feat  it 
 creates  a  fantastic  effect  unfortunately 
 it's  a  lot  of  work  and  a  lot  of  expense 
 and  not  easy  to  keep  up  over  time  and 
 have  it  look  its  best  over  time  the  zoo 
 was  considering  having  us  do  a  living 
 wall  in  all  these  spots  but  because  of 
 those  concerns  we  thought  it'd  be  a  lot 
 less  expensive  and  a  lot  more  in  keeping 
 with  their  maintenance  desires  to 
 actually  just  plant  the  plants  in  the 
 ground  and  have  them  grow  up  walls  and 
 Cascade  over  walls  and  create  what  we 
 call  a  green  wall  instead  of  a  living 
 wall  one  of  the  neat  things  about  using 
 our  products  to  maximize  growth  in  an 
 exhibit  like  this  is  the  health  of  the 
 animals  they  require  that  all  the 
 products  that  are  used  be  analyzed  and 
 approved  prior  to  use  so  our  John  and 
 Bob's  products  have  been  approved  to  use 
 in  these  animal  exhibits  because  they're 
 completely  organic  they're  safe  for 
 humans  and  kids  and  pets  what  they're 
 really  focused  on  is  maximizing  soil 
 life  they  give  you  the  maximum 
 opportunity  to  jump  start  growth  and 
 make  that  soil  as  healthy  as  possible 
 without  needing  any  chemical  fertilizers 
 and  also  while  minimizing  the 
 possibility  of  pests  and  diseases  that 
 might  require  some  pesticide  or 
 something  that  you  wouldn't  want  to 
 use  the  whole  goal  when  this  project 
 started  to  be  planned  is  have  a  big 
 spectacular  tree  here  unfortunately  the 
 perfect  tree  I  couldn't  find  in  a  big 
 size  it  was  determined  that  a  really 
 good  and  somewhat  unique  choice  is  this 
 cornis  cusa  which  is  Korean  Dogwood  I 
 couldn't  find  them  in  anything  bigger 
 than  a  24-in  box  so  we  put  three 
 together  to  make  it  look  like  a  natural 
 multi-trunk  as  big  as  possible  we  need 
 to  get  it  to  grow  so  we  use  a  lot  of 
 blend  penetrate  liquid  bio 
 tiller  we're  just  trying  to  raise  the 
 canopy  level  so  it  doesn't  look  like  a 
 big  shrub  and  when  this  blooms  in  the 
 spring  right  then  I  think  you  will'll 
 get  a  sense  of  how  what  a  nice  effect 
 it'll  make  but  for  right  now  looks  like 
 a  bunch  of  sticks  we're  going  to  get 
 those  sticks  to  grow  and  turn  into  the 
 signature  statement  of  this  planter 
 we're  just  thinning  it  out  removing  uh 
 bottom  branches  and  major  Crossing 
 branches  and  anything  that's  broken  the 
 same  way  you  might  prune  a  Japanese 
 maple  actually  a  Japanese  maple  would 
 have  been  appropriate  here  too  since 
 it's  also  Asian  there  are  some  uh  buds 
 on  it  right  now  indic  IND  ating  that  it 
 is  going  to  have  a  certain  amount  of 
 flowers  not  uh  as  many  as  next  spring 
 but  still  pretty  good  number  we're 
 looking  forward  to 
 those  come  visit  this  fine  Zoo  this 
 exhibit  will  be  open  we  think  in  about 
 may  I  hope  you  enjoyed  the  video  and  you 
 can  apply  it  to  your  own  gardening  and 
 Landscaping  efforts  in  addition  to  that 
 subscribe  we  need  more  subscribers  we're 
 after 
 50,000  um  thank  you  a  year  and  a  half  to 
 two  years  ago  we  came  here  and  we  did  a 
 video  about  maximizing  tree  Health  uh  by 
 treating  the  soil  with  John  and  Bob's 
 products  this  was  the  area  we  were 
 treating  them  in  um  which  is  now  a  brand 
 new  exhibit  this  is  the  first  part  of 
 Kingdoms  of  Asia  but  we  were  in  there 
 before  any  of  The  Hardscape  it  was  just 
 dirt  and  trees  so  you  can  check  back 
 that  video  that's  what  was  created  under 
 it

---

 chip  and  I  are  here  at  this  really  small 
 little  yard  with  overgrown  trees  and 
 shrubs  we've  had  questions  regarding 
 pruning  existing  mature  plants  thinking 
 that  the  pruning  process  was  completely 
 different  than  on  a  new  plant  in 
 actuality  the  pruning  process  is  pretty 
 much  the 
 same  I'm  John  Valentino  president  of 
 John  and  Bobs  and  I'm  here  with  chip 
 Valentino  vice  president  in  charge  of 
 renovation  behind  me  you  can  see  the 
 chamia  setsugekka  we've  already  pruned 
 and  we've  already  pruned  the  nachas  CRP 
 Myrtle  but  we  still  have  to  prune  The 
 duraheat  Birches  and  the  poto  carpet  and 
 the  little  Ollies  so  let's  get 
 started  you  know  we  have  these  separate 
 spaces  in  the  garden  we're  creating 
 Space  by  using  trees  and  shrubs  but 
 still  you've  got  to  keep  those  trees  and 
 shrubs  under  control  or  it  just  kind  of 
 looks  like  a  mess  even  though  it's  over 
 100°  today  there's  nothing  wrong  with 
 pruning  when  it's  hot  as  long  as  you 
 don't  prune  excessively  if  you  prune 
 excessively  then  that  heat  can  can 
 damage  a  tree  but  if  you  prune  properly 
 um  there's  nothing  wrong  with  pruning 
 when  it's  hot  more  important  how  you 
 prune  than  when  you  prune  although  the 
 timing  of  the  pruning  can  serve  to 
 either  encourage  grow  growth  or 
 discourage  growth  right  now  we've  just 
 had  spring  here  so  they've  put  on  all 
 kinds  of  growth  the  purpose  of  that 
 growth  is  through  photosynthesis  is  to 
 feed  more  growth  and  so  if  we  come  and 
 we  prune  off  a  lot  of  that  new  growth 
 then  we're  kind  of  tricking  the  plant 
 into  defeating  its  mechanism  for  growing 
 more  and  these  trees  we  don't  want  them 
 to  get  too  much  bigger  so  this  is  a  good 
 time  to  prune  we're  going  to  need  two 
 kinds  of  pruning  shears  small  hand 
 pruners  and  then  bigger  pruning  shears 
 some  people  call  these  loppers  if  the 
 trees  were  bigger  we  might  need  a 
 pruning  saw  what  I  want  to  do  here  is  I 
 want  to  raise  the  level  of  this  tree  a 
 little  bit  I  want  to  get  rid  of  some  of 
 this  growth  it's  real  low  especially 
 since  we've  got  other  shrubs  growing 
 under  it  bring  it  in  a  little  bit  so 
 it's  not  sprawling  out  take  out  the  dead 
 wood  and  I  want  to  thin  it  a  little  bit 
 to  where  you  can  just  slightly  better 
 get  a  sense  on  what's  on  the  other 
 side  a  wrong  kind  of  cut  on  this  would 
 be  heading  back  cut  where  we  say  oh  we 
 want  to  lift  this  up  so  we're  going  to 
 cut  this  branch  in 
 half  and  and  you  know  get  rid  of  part  of 
 it  the  proper  cut  is  we're  going  to  go 
 all  the  way  back  to  where  this  Branch 
 starts  and  so  this  is  a  thinning  cut 
 where  we  we  move  the  branch  entirely  and 
 we  go  very  close  to  the  main  trunk  we 
 make  a  nice  simple  cut  we  don't  put  any 
 black  stuff  or  anything  on  it  it's  a 
 clean  cut  so  through  the  sun  and  the 
 growth  of  the  tree  it'll  heal  nicely 
 this  Branch  I  want  to  make  a  little  more 
 room  for  these  little  allies  so  I  could 
 come  back  right  here  cut  that  that's  a 
 thinning  cut  that  goes  all  the  way  back 
 to  where  that  Branch  starts  and  those 
 are  the  kind  of  cuts  we  want  to 
 make  this  isn't  that  heavy  a  branch  but 
 when  you  have  heavy  branches  like  this 
 if  I  start  out  with  a  cut  right  there 
 because  of  the  weight  of  the  branch  a 
 lot  of  times  when  I  try  to  cut  it  it'll 
 tear  and  I  won't  get  a  nice  clean  cut  so 
 a  good  technique  is  to  make  an  initial 
 cut  that  just  removes  the  weight  of  the 
 branch  and  then  you  can  come  back  and 
 make  your  final 
 cut  very  clean  and  it  won't  tear  because 
 there's  no  weight  on 
 it  and  then  we're  going  to  come  in  here 
 wherever  there's  these  dead  branches  and 
 we're  going  to  remove 
 them  and  then  we're  going  to  look  for 
 ways  of  just  thinning  out  the  tree  you 
 can  see  this  Branch  goes  and  it  has  it's 
 Crossing  branches  uh  it's  going  up  and 
 it's  making  the  tree  more  dense  it's  um 
 making  it  so  light  can't  get  in  the 
 center  of  the  tree  so  we're  going  to 
 take  that  out  completely  because  we 
 don't  want  Crossing  branches  and  we  want 
 to  open  things  up  this  one  is  kind  of 
 oddly  attached  Ed  this  is  a  nice  Branch 
 I  want  to  keep  but  I  will  take  this  one 
 off 
 completely  it's  also  kind  of  low  look  at 
 this  Branch  coming  uh  way  over  here  you 
 can  see  this  Branch  here  and  we  want 
 these  trees  to  D  grow  kind  of  columnar 
 and  stay  inside  their  area  and  not  Arch 
 over  and  touch  the  other  tree  so  we  look 
 at  that  branch  and  we  figure  out  if  we 
 want  to  remove  it  completely  or  we  want 
 to  just  prune  it  in  a  way  that  it  will 
 kind  of  go  back  to  and  and  be  closer 
 into  the  uh  growth  of  the  tree  well  I 
 can  make  that  cut  right  here  I  can 
 see  I  pruned  it  back  to  a  branch  that's 
 growing  straight  up  and  we  can  do  that 
 with  the  other  branches  too  so  here  you 
 can  see  we've  got  kind  of  a  heavy  we'll 
 cut  that  we'll  take  that 
 off  I've  got  a  little  uh  Buzz 
 uh  right  here  growing  I  can  prune  back 
 to  that  we've  now  brought  this  in  a 
 little  bit  we're  just  going  to  keep 
 doing  what  I  just  showed  you  I  showed 
 you  on  the  lowest  level  here  we're  going 
 to  use  the  pole  pruners  as  a  convenient 
 way  of  pruning  the  top  part  of  the  tree 
 but  we're  going  to  use  the  same 
 principles  so  we'll  have  some  thinning 
 Cuts  Like  That  where  we're  uh  removing 
 entire  branches  some  we're  cutting  back 
 to  another  bud  and  we're  trying  to  get 
 this  tree  to  just  grow  up  more  instead 
 of  um  laying  on  the 
 roof  I  think  these  have  been  impacted 
 dramatically  by  these  trees  by  lifting 
 these  trees  up  I  think  we're  going  to  be 
 able  to  get  these  to  grow  all  the  same 
 height  and  grow  in  a  natural  form 
 without  using  hedge  trimmers  on  them  try 
 to  use  the  same  principles  I  used  on  the 
 tree  you  know  right  now  this  looks  odd 
 where  we  have  this  errant  Branch  so 
 we'll  cut  back  to  some  kind  of  a  bud 
 there  with  leaves  and  that  should  Sprout 
 under  that  cut  we'll  prune  it  back  a 
 little  bit  to  try  to  keep  it  inside  the 
 planter  clean  up  the  bottom  a  little 
 lift  it  up  and  uh  maybe  just  thin  it  out 
 a  little  there's  really  not  much  you  can 
 do  wrong  with  a  plant  like  this  heading 
 back  cuts  on  a  shrub  like  this  are  are 
 fine  unlike  a  tree  so  we're  not  always 
 real  concerned 
 about  um  the  origin  this  does  have  a  lot 
 of  dead  wood  I  think  which  was  created 
 by  the  fact  that  these  trees  growing 
 over  it  were  dominating 
 it  yeah  there's  some  times  where  you 
 don't  need  to  prune  much  even  like  these 
 poto  carpus  macril  they  don't  need  a  lot 
 of  pruning  it's  just  the  reason  they 
 need  pruning  here  is  because  we  have 
 such  a  small  space  we  want  them  to  grow 
 up  to  try  to  screen  the  development  on 
 the  other  side  we  want  them  to  grow  out 
 to  screen  the  block  wall  you  could  make 
 heading  back  Cuts  cuz  it's  more  of  a 
 large  shrub  uh  than  anything  else  um 
 we're  just  going  to  prune  this  back  so 
 it  doesn't  uh  invade  on  our  space  here 
 and  that'll  probably  have  to  be  done 
 yeah  also  about  once  a  year  we  don't 
 really  want  to  prune  this  because  we 
 want  this  to  touch  to  block  that  block 
 W  I  still  like  to  prune  back  to  a  some 
 kind  of  a  small  bud  or  branch  and  then 
 it'll  grow  up  so  that's  how  we  prune  the 
 pooc  carpus  macril  but  it  is  a  good 
 example  of  a  shrub  a  large  shrub  that 
 needs  very  little 
 pruning  this  is  Laura  pedum  uh  same  idea 
 this  is  helping  us  screen  the  neighbors 
 a  little  so  we'll  probably  leave  the 
 taller  stuff  we're  not  going  to  do 
 anything  too  dramatic  except  we  want  to 
 keep  it  from  growing  into  our  area  here 
 that  we  use  so  we'll  take  some  of  these 
 branches 
 off  and  we'll  thin  it  a  little  bit  try 
 to  direct  them  away  from  the  osmanthus 
 by  making  cuts  to  encourage  the  branches 
 they  grow  the  other 
 direction  this  is  an  espol  OS  mantis  so 
 we  grew  it  in  a  shape  to  grow  along  the 
 fence  it  wants  to  kind  of  grow  out  into 
 a  non-  espalier  so  we'll  prune  it  back 
 all  the  branches  that  are  growing  out 
 this  way  we'll  try  to  shorten  them  or 
 cut  them  off  it's  still  okay  to  have 
 growth  along  there  but 
 we  don't  want  major  branches  coming  out 
 this  way  okay  so  that's  pretty  much  what 
 we're  going  to  do  to  the  OS 
 mantis  that's  it  we'll  continue  to  do 
 that  on  all  of  them  we'll  show  you  what 
 it  looks  like  when  we're  all  done  but 
 those  are  the  principles  very  similar  to 
 pruning  a  new  tree  or  a  new  shrub  once 
 we  finish  pruning  we're  going  to  do  a 
 quick  application  of  our  optimize 
 maximize  and  nourish  biosol  which  we 
 call  blend  when  mixed  together 
 especially  on  the  p  carpus  macroone  P 
 cuz  we  want  those  to  grow  we  want  those 
 to  create  this  screen  where  we're 
 separate  this  Garden  from  the  outside 
 world  there  and  keep  everything  else 
 healthy  if  you  find  this  video  useful 
 watch  it  again  and  tell  all  your  friends 
 to  watch  it  if  you  have  questions  about 
 these  pruning  techniques  put  your 
 questions  in  the  comments  below 
 [Music]

---

 we  are  here  trying  to  grow  the  world's 
 biggest  tomato  four  weeks  ago  we  planted 
 six  tomatoes  for  this  experiment  SL 
 exciting  Adventure  after  4  weeks  we're 
 ready  to  stake  them  and  we're  ready  to 
 do  some  initial  pruning  and  also  tell 
 you  about  a  little  change  in  the 
 protocol  Oscar  decided  to  use  the 
 penetrate  liquid  bioer  a  little 
 [Music] 
 differently  we  planted  two  mortgage 
 lifters  two  Whoppers  and  two  big  Zachs 
 now  the  Zachs  I  had  a  hard  time  finding 
 so  they're  way  behind  they're  very  tiny 
 but  the  mortgage  lifters  and  the 
 Whoppers  that's  what  we're  going  to 
 stake  today  I'm  John  Valentino  president 
 of  John  and  Bob's  here  with  chip 
 Valentino  uh  vice  president  in  charge  of 
 large  tomatoes  and  Oscar  is  here  he's 
 going  to  explain  the  pruning  and  we  want 
 to  do  the  pruning  before  the  staking 
 because  it'll  kind  of  clear  the  way  and 
 make  the  staking  easier  to  get  all  the 
 branches  inside  the  cages  and  this 
 pruning  is  built  around  the  concept  of 
 directing  the  energy  towards  growing  big 
 Tomatoes  rather  than  growing  uh 
 vegetative  tomatoes  so  you  can  see  we 
 got  great  growth  in  these  uh  4  weeks  or 
 almost  4  weeks  and  now  we're  going  to 
 start  uh  the  process  of  managing  that 
 growth  you  want  to  remove  some  of  the 
 suckers  because  we  want  a  lot  of  energy 
 to  go  to  the  tomatoes  so  that  we  can 
 grow  the  world's  biggest  one  this  is  one 
 socer  the  soccer  is  between  the  leavs 
 and  the  main  branch  so  we  need 
 to  now  we  can  do  this  one 
 too  the 
 Sockers  we  can  find  it  they  between  the 
 leaves  and  the  main  branch  example  this 
 one  uh  and  the  main  yeah  and  so  the 
 that's  that's  growing  in  between  it 
 okay  they  start  like  that  you  see  it  mhm 
 this  a 
 so  so  uh  which  one  is  the  sucker  this 
 one  but  you're  going  to  leave  that  one 
 for  now  until  it  gets  a  little  bigger 
 and  now  we  can  clear  the  bottom  so  you 
 like  to  prune  them  up  a  little  bit  so 
 you  don't  have  a  lot  of  growth  right  at 
 the  base  so  on  these  size  one  month 
 plants  we're  identifying  like  two  or 
 three  suckers  and  removing  those  and 
 we'll  probably  remove  more  as  they 
 continue  to  grow  and  the  whole  idea  is 
 to  try  to  focus  energy  on  growing 
 tomatoes  rather  than  growing  big  leafy 
 plants  Oscar  why  do  you  prefer  using 
 these  cages  uh  rather  than  just  wood 
 staks  we  use  those  kind  of  CES  because 
 this  PL  gold  about  seven  F  to  yeah  so  we 
 don't  want  to  grow  wild  you  want  to  keep 
 it  contained  and  you  also  want  to  keep 
 it  supported  the  problem  I  think  with 
 just  Stakes  is  it  starts  falling  over 
 it's  not  a  permanent  solution  whereas 
 this  is  a  permanent  onetime  seasonal 
 solution  to  staking  we  put  these  cages 
 in  and  pretty  much  for  the  whole  season 
 as  long  as  the  tomatoes  are  bearing 
 we're  done  with  staking  yes  well 
 sometimes  they  grow  more  than  than  that 
 but  uh  yeah  we  try  to  do  the  best  uh 
 where  did  you  get  these  cges  the  owner 
 went  to  harw  store 
 H  they  made  it  yeah  so  they  just  welded 
 it  yes  yeah  and  we  made  some  just  like 
 it  relatively  easy  way  of  um  making  a  a 
 cage  you  can  also  buy  these  online  some 
 version  of  a  steel  cage  whether  you  make 
 it  yourself  or  buy  it  online  is  what  we 
 recommend  for  growing  not  only  the 
 world's  biggest  tomato  but  any 
 tomatoes  and  who  do  we  have  helping 
 us  so  heracleo  is  going  to  help  uh 
 Oscar  so  the  reason  he  needs  help  is  to 
 try  not  to  do  any  damage  to  the  foliage 
 of  the  Tomato  he's  going  to  do  a 
 combination  of  these  cages  with  uh  Lodge 
 pole  steaks  so  he's  using  those  ties  to 
 tie  the  wire  cages  to  the  lodge  pole 
 Stakes  the  steaks  with  the  steak  pounder 
 are  very  strong  and  sturdy  usually  they 
 don't  rot  or  anything  that's  the  purpose 
 of  using  a  lodge  pole 
 steak  in  talking  to  people  about  uh 
 growing  the  world's  biggest  tomato  it 
 made  me  realize  we  want  to  grow  the 
 world's  best  tomato  too  so  big  and 
 delicious  it's  not  not  just  big  it's  a 
 lot  of  pressure  oh  man  it's  it's  tough 
 but  chip  is  up  to  it  right  Chip  he 
 thinks  he's  got  the  way  of  utilizing 
 penetrate  liquid  bioer  in  the  last  video 
 we  told  you  he  was  going  to  inject  the 
 penetrate  liquid  bioer  which  is  an 
 excellent  thing  to  do  but  he  changed  his 
 mind  and  he's  only  using  the  penetrate 
 liquid  bio  tiller  on  these  uh  tomato 
 plants  and  he's  doing  it  once  a  week 
 every  Friday  he  does  about  a  gallon  and 
 puts  it  in  the  root  Zone  he  did  it  this 
 morning  we're  supplementing  the  original 
 uh  fertilization  of  the  soil  and  of  the 
 plant  which  was  our  blend  and  our 
 additional  nourished  biosol  and  now  once 
 a  week  penetrate  liquid  bio  Tiller  that 
 combination  will  allow  these  to  thrive 
 do  you  think  we  can  grow  the  world's 
 biggest  tomato  let  us  know  in  the 
 comments  but  be  kind  today  we  did  a 
 little  bit  of  pruning  of  the  suckers  so 
 that  we  can  direct  energy  of  the  plant 
 to  producing  Tomatoes  but  very  minor 
 pruning  because  we  still  need  a  lot  of 
 vegetative  growth  through  photosynthesis 
 to  allow  those  tomato  Vines  to  grow  and 
 prosper  and  get  big  and  then  we  stake 
 them  and  staking  is  a  very  important 
 part  of  it  we're  big  Believers  in 
 staking  with  cages  because  we  find  it's 
 a  permanent  solution  uh  to  staking  and 
 we  don't  have  problems  as  the  season 
 progresses  with  the  staking  method  not 
 supporting  the  vine  that's  the  focus  of 
 our  uh  efforts  for  today  and  now  we'll 
 be  back  in  2  weeks  and  we'll  look  at 
 maybe  m  pruning  and  tying  and  get  those 
 developing  in  the  right  way  we'll  look 
 at  the  watering  we'll  check  for  pests 
 and  disease  and  we'll  continue  with  the 
 weekly  penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller 
 that's  what  we've  got  coming  up  for  our 
 next  visit  so  if  you  like  this  video  and 
 get  something  out  of  it  please  subscribe 
 and  please  tell  your  friends  to 
 subscribe  and  right  now  you're  watering 
 how  often  every  other  day  right  now 
 you're  watering  every  other  day 
 penetrate  liquid  bioer  once  a  week  and 
 you  got  two  two  gallon  emitters  on  every 
 tomato  and  you're  leaving  it  that  on  how 
 long  uh  30  minutes  30  minutes  every 
 other  day  at  some  point  do  you  change 
 that  or  do  you  no  you  keep  going  with 
 that  okay  and  for  food  we  don't  worry 
 about  it  because  we  got  plenty  food  for 
 plants  John  and  Bob  gave  us  that  John 
 and  Bob  gave  us  food  remember  that

---

 in  my  correspondence  I'm  finding  that 
 lots  of  people  think  they  have  fungus 
 whenever  you  have  a  brown  spot  in  your 
 lawn  that  is  a  possibility  we'll  look  at 
 a  lawn  that  actually  had  a  fungal 
 disease  and  we  took  steps  to  improve  it 
 and  now  that  we're  about  to  get  some 
 real  hot  weather  here  we  hope  to 
 permanently  eradicate  it  and  get  that 
 hybrid  Bermuda  to 
 grow  we'll  show  you  how  we're  going  to 
 apply  penetrate  liquid  bioer  citrol 
 blast  that  will  depress  the  activ  ity  of 
 bad  fungus  that's  causing  these  brown 
 spots  so  what  we're  doing  is  applying  a 
 fungicide  that's  really  good  for  the 
 soil  and  that's  really  the  whole  premise 
 of  my  way  of  combating  a  fungal  disease 
 it's  that  building  of  your  soil  that  is 
 the  key  to  not  having  this  problem  year 
 after  year  if  you  use  a  synthetic 
 fertilizer  it's  pretty  certain  that 
 following  year  when  the  conditions  are 
 the  same  you're  going  to  get  the  same 
 problem  because  the  natural  defense 
 mechanisms  which  is  microbes  in  the  soil 
 are  killed  along  with  the  bad  fungi 
 let's  put  things  on  the  soil  that  are 
 good  for  it  and  that  also  benefit  you  in 
 the  long  term  by  building  soil  that  can 
 sustain  Lawns  without  disease  make  sure 
 you  use  that  that  was  good  as  we  treat 
 poorly  performing  Lawns  what  we're 
 looking  for  is  signs  of  the  reappearance 
 of  trouble  what  really  is  a  key  with 
 fungal  disease  is  some  kind  of  pattern 
 to  the  discoloration  on  this  lawn  we 
 became  aware  of  the  problem  about  August 
 20th  of  2023  we  weren't  sure  what  we 
 were  going  to  find  other  than  the  lawn 
 wasn't  performing  well  the  lawn  was  very 
 very  thin  there  is  a  lot  of  shade  here 
 and  that  was  part  of  the  explanation  in 
 certain  areas  Bermuda  won't  perform  well 
 in  shade  if  you're  in  a  hot  area  like 
 Fresno  or  Phoenix  or  Las  Vegas  in  the 
 middle  of  the  summer  and  the  Bermuda 
 doesn't  look  good  then  it's  either  water 
 or  some  kind  of  disease  this  had  all  the 
 appearances  of  a  fungal  disease  kind  of 
 a  pattern  to  it  we  turned  on  the 
 sprinklers  they  worked  beautifully 
 fantastic  coverage  we  were  pretty 
 certain  then  that  it  was  a  fungal 
 disease  now  fungal  diseases  on  cool 
 season  Earth  are  very  common  in  August 
 because  where  we  have  these  100  degree 
 temperatures  on  tall  fescue  people  tend 
 to  water  too  much  you  combine  heavy  soil 
 lots  of  water  and  a  cool  seasoned  grass 
 like  tall  fescue  and  that's  just  a 
 perfect  environment  for  fungal  disease 
 so  the  first  thing  we  did  was  try  to 
 infuse  the  soil  with  beneficial  fungi 
 and  beneficial  bacteria  and  beneficial 
 protozoa  and  good  nemoses  we  came  back 
 in  October  of  2023  saw  the  results  and 
 now  we're  back  in  May  of  24  we've  had  a 
 strong  progression  of  improvement 
 it's  starting  to  get  hot  here  which  is 
 good  for  Bermuda  because  that's  when 
 it'll  grow  like  crazy  and  that's  what  we 
 wanted  to  do  here  on  Saturday  Enrique 
 applied  about  12  lb  per  thousand 
 nourished  biosol  that  nourish  biosol  is 
 antifungal  so  that's  going  to  feed  the 
 Bermuda  and  inoculate  the  soil  in  a  way 
 that  we  will  kill  off  bad  fungus  with 
 good 
 fungi  we're  going  to  apply  it  at  8  oz 
 per  th000  square  ft  so  we're  going  to  do 
 16  oz  of  a  and  16  oz  of  B  that's  a  right 
 there  which  is  all  the  food  for  the 
 bacteria  and  then  the  beneficial 
 bacteria  itself  and  we  don't  want  those 
 to  come  together  until  we're  ready  to 
 put  it  in  the  garden  now  Enrique  is 
 going  to  fill  it  with  the  4  gallons  of 
 water  we're  going  to  apply  it  a  little 
 differently  I've  showed  you  in  the  past 
 how  I  in  order  to  do  it  quickly  I  put  it 
 in  my  backpack  sprayer  and  I  take  the 
 nozzle  off  and  I  kind  of  just  flip  the 
 thing  around  well  Enrique  has  an 
 electric  backpack 
 sprayer  I  don't  even  know  what  that 
 brand  is  where  did  you  get 
 iton  oh  so  you  ordered  it  on  Amazon  a 
 battery  operated  backpack  sprayer  so 
 we're  just  going  to  spray  the  whole  4 
 gallons  over  this  whole  lawn  kind  of  a 
 heavy  application  but  that's  good  the 
 more  the  better  if  it's  not  completely 
 even  that's  fine  there's  going  to  be 
 irrigation  that  goes  on  here  it'll 
 disperse  out  the  product  that's  about 
 right  because  that  size's  a  little  bit 
 bigger  yeah  right  so  how  much  we  got  you 
 got  about  um  you  used  about  a 
 third  so  now  on  the  other  side  and  uh 
 that  thing's  spraying  like 
 crazy  it's  actually  looks  like  a  shot 
 glass  but  uh  we're  going  to  use  it  for 
 shots  of  citrol  blast  we're  going  to  go 
 two 
 per  uh  1,000  squ  ft  so  we're  going  to  go 
 eight 
 3  4  5  6  whoops  7  8  and  we'll  fill  it 
 with  4  gallons  of  water  and  wash  off  the 
 mess  that  I  made  here  and  there  wow  how 
 much 
 faster  really  goes  easy  mixture  of 
 garlic  oil  soybean  oil  peppermint  oil 
 thyme  oil  and  uh  some  humic  acid  in  it 
 really  good  natural  anti-  fungal  product 
 it's  also  really  good  for  your  soil 
 really  good  for  your 
 plants  so  this  is  Chip  my  vice  president 
 of  fungal  disease  if  you  have  questions 
 about  your  own  lawn  send  them  to  us 
 we've  done  quite  a  few  videos  on  lawns 
 and  Lawn  fungal  disease  specifically  on 
 this  lawn  we  have  two  other  videos  can 
 you  smell  the  garlic 
 yeah  does  it  make  you  hungry  barley  G 
 butter

---

 we're  going  to  combine  tomato  varieties 
 that  just  normally  grow  good  siiz 
 tomatoes  with  our  soil  products  used  in 
 a  way  to  encourage  the  world's  biggest 
 tomato  to  be  grown  where  are  you  going 
 to  do  your  deal  okay  yeah  so  we're  going 
 to  one  two  3  four  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  I'm 
 John  Valentino  president  of  John  and 
 Bob's  Corporation  here  with  chip 
 Valentino  vice  president  in  charge  of 
 vegetables  and  we're  here  with  Oscar  and 
 Oscar  is  at  his  vegetable  garden  here 
 and  what  we're  going  to  do  today  is 
 start  a  series  of  videos  where  we're 
 going  to  grow  the  world's  biggest 
 tomato  he's  got  a  bunch  of  tomato 
 planting  sites  uh  we're  going  to  plant 
 two  mortgage  lifters  two  Whopper  and  two 
 big  Zachs  the  significance  of  these  is 
 they're  known  to  grow  big  Tomatoes 
 especially  big  Zach  I  think  has  been  a 
 winner  more  than  one  year  of  the  world's 
 biggest  tomato  those  are  our  six  then 
 he's  going  to  plant  more  tomatoes  for 
 himself  here  what  he's  going  to  do  is 
 he's  going  to  incorporate  two  cups  of 
 blend  into  the  back 
 fill  reason  we  want  to  incorporate  that 
 is  that  has  microa  in  it  and  we  want  the 
 microa  to  touch  the  roots  of  the  new 
 tomatoes  because  that's  how  micro  Isa 
 grow  is  on  roots  of  plants  today  we're 
 going  to  plant  a  few  of  them  and  we'll 
 talk  to  you  about  how  we're  going  to 
 plant  them  and  then  in  a  subsequent 
 videos  we're  going  to  have  Oscar  explain 
 exactly  what  he  does  for  pruning  and 
 watering  and  all  of  that  now  he's  going 
 to  plant  the  Tomato  he's  got  a  method 
 that  he  likes  to  do  where  he  plants  them 
 a  little  bit  deep  and  they'll  root  under 
 the  planting  area  many  plants  you  know 
 you  don't  want  to  plant  them  deep  you 
 need  to  plant  them  at  the  level  tomatoes 
 are  an  exception  so  he  plants  them  deep 
 gets  that  back  filled  blend  into  right 
 where  it's  going  to  root  and  now  we've 
 got  miza  and  all  our  other  things 
 actually  touching  the  the  roots  of  the 
 new  tomatoes  one  of  the  things  that 
 happens  here  in  our  in  Fresno  is  if  you 
 plant  them  and  then  right  after  you 
 plant  them  it  gets  100°  uh  that's  not 
 good  for  tomatoes  which  it  can  happen 
 this  time  of  the  year  because  tomatoes 
 don't  Bloom  well  when  it's  100°  and  they 
 don't  pollinate  well  when  it's  100°  so  I 
 like  to  plant  them  even  even  March  15th 
 or  or  at  least  by  April  15th  but  we  had 
 a  lot  of  other  things  to  do  so  we  didn't 
 get  it  done  so  we're  planning  them  on 
 May  4th  with  Oscar's  excellent  care  we 
 think  they'll  do  well  we're  going  to  put 
 a  cup  of  nourished  biosol  around  each 
 tomato  and  then  he's  just  lightly 
 incorporating  it  in  the  top  we  do  have 
 nourished  biosol  in  the  blend  and  now 
 that's  in  the  back  fill  but  then  right 
 at  the  top  we  we  want  some  source  of 
 nutrients  just  because  tomatoes  being 
 heavy  feeders  you  know  with  synthetic 
 fertilizer  you  can  definitely  overdo  it 
 on  tomatoes  since  nourish  Bol  is  a  soil 
 Builder  and  a  fertilizer  and  has  all 
 kinds  of  nutrients  and  minerals  and 
 enzymes  then  it's  excellent  to  use 
 pretty  heavily  and  then  he's  going  to 
 once  a  week  spray  all  of  the  tomatoes 
 with  penetrate  liquid  bioer  but  he  has  a 
 much  simpler  solution  which  you  might 
 have  heard  of  he  has  an  injector  for  his 
 vegetable  garden  where  every  time  it  ERS 
 it  injects  whatever  he  wants  it  to 
 inject  and  we  are  going  to  have  it 
 inject  penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller  and 
 then  he  doesn't  have  to  worry  about 
 manually  putting  it  on  penetrate  liquid 
 bio  it  has  lots  of  other  things  in  it 
 lots  of  beneficial  minerals  in  it  it  has 
 kelp  in  it  and  liquid  humic  acid  so  lots 
 of  things  that  help  plant  growth  and 
 plant  production  and  we're  since  we're 
 growing  the  world's  biggest  tomato  it's 
 also  good  to  spray  the  leaves  it's 
 actually  a  good  organic  pesticide  and 
 Fungicide  and  all  around  healthy  for 
 them  and  then  really  good  for  the  soil 
 itself  I  like  to  spray  the  leaves  when 
 they  get  just  a  little  bit  bigger  if 
 they're  really  really  tiny  you  can 
 desiccate  the  leaves  so  now  Oscar  is 
 going  to  water  it  in  which  is  a  good 
 idea  on  the  day  you  plant  to  water  very 
 thoroughly  so  he's  going  to  water  the 
 two  two  gallon  emitters  for  20  minutes 
 on  this  initial  watering  so  that's  the 
 formula  we're  using  the  blend  mixed  into 
 the  backfill  the  nourished  biosol  over 
 the  top  and  then  the  penetrate  liquid 
 bioer  on  a  regular  basis  once  a  week 
 Oscar  will  also  be  staking  these  uh  how 
 long  before  you  stake 
 them  uh  I  say  uh  no  more  than  three 
 weeks  okay  so  in  three  weeks  he'll  be 
 staking  them  we'll  show  you  how  he 
 Stakes  them  and  why  he  Stakes  them  the 
 way  he  does  he  does  a  really  good  job  of 
 staking  they  grow  fast  and  they've  got 
 big  tomatoes  so  they  need  a  lot  of 
 support  so  if  you  want  to  watch  this 
 process  of  Oscar  growing  the  world's 
 biggest  tomato  Please  Subscribe  please 
 keep  tuning  in  we're  going  to  have  a 
 video  about  this  topic  every  now  and 
 then  we  think  it'll  be  fun  and 
 interesting  but  also  pretty  educational 
 about  growing  tomatoes  in  general  thank 
 you  Oscar  for  helping  us  and  hopefully 
 you'll  have  a  good  tomato  season  your 
 welome  joh  welcome  all  the  time  you  and 
 Chief  and  Brandon  thank  you  we 
 appreciate  it

---

 unfortunately  the  owner  passed  away 
 about  a  year  and  a  half  ago  he  was  a 
 person  that  loved  color  it's  kind  of 
 hard  to  think  of  a  flower  that  he 
 doesn't  have  here  hi  I'm  John  Valentino 
 president  of  John  and  Bobs  and  I'm  here 
 with  chip  Valentino  vice  president  of 
 spring  Bloom  he  found  this  Garden  which 
 we've  been  at  several  times  and  we're 
 here  to  show  it  to  you  in  the  spring  and 
 celebrate 
 spring  okay  let's  start  uh  over  in  this 
 direction  Salvia  and  the  alysum 
 different  uh  types  of  annuals  geranium  F 
 celana  which  is  pineapple  guava  we  have 
 a  beautiful  Dogwood  this  one  finished 
 blooming  so  we  don't  get  to  appreciate 
 it  much  we're  walking  under  big  green 
 Japanese  maples  and  walking  under  a  red 
 Japanese  maple  with  hydrangeas  getting 
 ready  to  bloom  not  quite  blooming  we've 
 got  dianthus  as  a  border  plant  which  is 
 also  at  the  tail 
 end  back  side  of  the  garden  where  not 
 much  is  happening  right  now  because 
 there's  quite  a  few  dog  woods  and  they 
 all  finished  blooming  we  were  hoping 
 we'd  catch  some  got  these  huge  camper 
 trees  all  that  were  planted  when  they 
 first  planted  this  Garden  about  35  40 
 years  ago  and  they  are  quite  large  now 
 and  they  make  a  boundary  right  up 
 against  a  pretty  busy  street  we've  got 
 Dent  shade  from  all  this  planting  from 
 mock  orange  poosum  toyra  just  the 
 regular  pum  tabra  and  under  it  is 
 regular  sword 
 Ferns  and  then  we're  entering  an  area 
 where  they  had  a  big  problem  every  year 
 this  piece  of  lawn  all  around  the  goko 
 would  almost  look  dead  it  would  look 
 Brown  and  the  goko  wasn't  growing  you 
 know  when  we  have  those  kinds  of 
 problems  you  can  almost  be  sure  that 
 it's  something  related  to  soil  and  so  we 
 did  an  intensive  re  amending  this  area 
 so  let's  keep 
 touring  behind  the  iceberg  roses  is 
 escalus  Cara  red  horse  chestnut  tree 
 which  is  not  found  that  much  in  Fresno 
 but  as  you  can  see  it'll  grow  here  this 
 is  full  size  really  nice  uh  spring 
 blooming  tree  and  kind  of  unusual  these 
 are  Iceberg  roses  grown  as  small  trees 
 annuals  like  pansies  and  Snap  Dragons 
 and  such  is  getting  ready  to  change 
 these  but  he's  got  an  event  on  May  8th 
 or  May  10th  so  he's  going  to  leave  them 
 blooming  like  this  until  right  after  the 
 event  then  he's  going  to  change  to 
 Summer  annuals  it's  quite  a  impressive 
 display  of  flowers  of  all  kinds  chip 
 come  this  way  don't  go  that  way  hey 
 Francisco  these  Iceberg  roses  bloom  like 
 this  three  or  four  times  under  it  they 
 have  annuals  and  other  things  there's  a 
 nice  vegetable  garden  we're  going  to  do 
 a  tomato  video  from  here  coming  up 
 there's  not  a  lot  of  activity  in  it 
 right  now  he's  getting  ready  to  plant 
 the  summer  vegetables  we'll  be  looking 
 at  that  in  more 
 detail  now  we  can  uh  head  into  the  back 
 Garden  which  is  quite 
 extensive  there's  asers  about  to  bloom 
 lots  of  crepe  myrtles  everywhere  lots  of 
 container  planting 
 big  expanse  of  Fescue  lawn  this  is  the 
 viburnum  that  uh  was  a  big  favorite  of 
 the  owner  under  that  is  a  good  example 
 of  growing  things  here  that  you  don't 
 see  too  much  of  in  Fresno  that  Roto 
 dendrin  you  can  grow  rends  in  Fresno  but 
 not  easily  he  has  examples  of  that 
 throughout  the  garden  with  unusual 
 plants  and  unusual  plants  from  F  from 
 Fresno  doing  well  we're  walking  under  a 
 big  green  Japanese  Maple  and  a  very 
 prolific  grapefruit  that  produces  a 
 delicious 
 grapefruit  lots  of  annuals  along  the 
 walks  in  this  case  mostly  pansies  roses 
 and  Salvia  hydranges  getting  ready  to 
 bloom  we  walk  under  a  beautiful  what  is 
 that  some  type  of  uh 
 Magnolia  hibiscus  there's  lots  of 
 hibiscus  these  hibiscus  are  good  for 
 Fresno  and  they  bloom  like  crazy  with  a 
 little  waterfalling  stream  that  goes 
 into  a  bigger  Koi  pond  in  another  part 
 of  the  garden  a  lot  of  this  was  just 
 recently  planted  cuz  they  had  kind  of 
 big  old  overgrowth  and  now  you  can  see 
 they  planted  roses  in  Salvia  and  some 
 new  trees  I  see  a  purple  leaf  Plum  some 
 aelas  and  some  lur  petalum  this  is  a 
 flowering  cherry  pretty  much  a  little  B 
 of  everything  beautiful  camper  nicely 
 pruned  and  this  lawn  area  was  another 
 area  we  had  some  problems  with  fungal 
 disease  but  not  anymore  different  uh 
 things  like  ALR  Maria  and  geraniums 
 we've  got  all  kinds  of  flowering  plants 
 different  Chamas  which  looks  like  they 
 had  already  Bloom  this  is  right  along 
 the  back  border  under  ginkos  and 
 Japanese  aelia  Bonas  and  agapanthus  and 
 Japanese  maples  and  Red  Buds  and 
 redwoods  the  the  state  tree  of 
 California  coast  Redwood  then  we  get  to 
 the  back  where  there  is  a  big  koi  pond 
 with  lots  of  appropriate  riparian 
 planting  around  the  koi  pond  and  lots  of 
 flowers  at  different  times  things  like 
 crepe  myrtle  which  are  going  to  bloom 
 later  and  more  of  the  Hibiscus  that's 
 the  sercus  Hibiscus  quite  a  lush 
 beautiful  planting  in  a  garden  that  that 
 still  has  Simplicity  to  it  doesn't  look 
 like  a  mess  because  a  lot  of  things  were 
 planted  in  Mass  by  providing  really 
 healthy  soil  we've  got  a  lot  of  things 
 thriving  here  this  is  Japanese  aelia  the 
 foreground  of  different  chamele  and 
 agapanthus  and  annuals  with  the  alysum  a 
 red  Japanese  maple  another  um  what  did  I 
 call  it  over  there  I  I  just  forgot  boy 
 it's  the  same  thing  that  we  saw  over 
 there  so  many  plants  Roto  dendrin  and 
 then  a  beautiful  rose  garden  which  is 
 just  starting  to  bloom  and  we  used  um 
 about  three  cups  blend  per  rose  bush 
 they  responded  to  that  really  well  lots 
 of  different  popular  roses  some  standard 
 and  some  um  the  shrub  form  let  me  see 
 what  this 
 is  purple  potato  vine  grown  as  a  tree 
 right  in  the  center  of  the  Rose  Garden 
 which  should  um  provide  lots  of  good 
 blooming  another  rodendan 
 buganvilia  doing  fantastic  which  more 
 and  more  with  a  little  bit  warmer 
 temperatures  seems  to  do  well  in  Fresno 
 but  it  can  be  damaged  by  cold  but  that's 
 a  beautiful 
 buganvilia  beautiful  Wisteria  you  can 
 see  it's  been  here  a  while  amongst  this 
 Arbor  it  could  have  been  trained  to  grow 
 over  the  arbor  but  in  this  case  they 
 just  have  it  growing  around  the  columns 
 Oscar  did  this  uh  was  steria  Bloom  yet 
 yeah  so  we  missed  the 
 bloom  does  it  Bloom  quite  a 
 bit  yeah  probably  some  of  it  gets  too 
 much  shade  but 
 yeah  so  the  ones  that  get  more  sun  uh 
 produce  a  good  Bloom  okay  thank  you 
 Oscar  so  even  though  there's  lots 
 blooming  now  it's  planted  in  a  way  that 
 there's  lots  blooming  all  the  time  and 
 so  we  we  can  see  lots  of  things  that  we 
 didn't  catch  the  bloom  in  because  of  the 
 time  we  came  here  that's  how  this  Garden 
 is  designed  full  of  blooming  plants  that 
 give  us  something  to  look  at  all  year 
 round  if  you  enjoyed  the  tour  uh  let  us 
 know  make  sure  you  subscribe  if  you  have 
 any  questions  ask  us  about  it  it's  a 
 garden  we  are  really  pleased  to  have  had 
 the  opportunity  to  uh  use  our  products 
 on  because  we  think  it  dramatically 
 changed  the  appearance  of  the  garden  and 
 the  long-term  maintenance  of  the  garden 
 which  is  now  not  plagued  with  Pest  and 
 disease  and  what  are  you  going  to  do 
 with  that  well  every  time  I  come  here  I 
 pick  one  or  two  and  then  over  the  next  2 
 or  3  days  I  eat  them  they're  very  good 
 grapefruit  you  know  this  Garden  has 
 native  soil  that's  very  heavy  very  clay 
 like  doesn't  drain  well  it  was 
 landscaped  uh  without  a  lot  of  soil 
 amendment  where  did  Chip  go  he's  right 
 over  there  okay  they  had  real  serious 
 problems  every  year  with  a  fungal 
 disease  on  the  Fescue  lawn  when  we  got 
 into  summer  and  with  lots  of  pests  and 
 diseases  they  responded  by  using  Merit 
 and  every  year  they  were  ordering  more 
 and  more  Merit  and  lots  of  synthetic 
 fungicide  they  used  subdue  and  each  year 
 the  garden  would  look  a  little  bit  worse 
 in  summer  so  about  7  years  ago  uh  we  got 
 involved  and  changed  the  protocol 
 actually  stopped  using  the  Merit  and  the 
 subdue  started  infusing  the  soil  with 
 beneficial  Life  by  using  our  blend  and 
 our  penetrate  liquid  bioer  and  we  used 
 uh  our  fungicide  citrol  blast  uh  so  that 
 combination  of  items  for  the  lawn  and 
 for  the  plants  really  changed  the  garden 
 dramatically  everything  started  looking 
 healthier  blooming  more  and  that's 
 epitomized  by  this  area  where  last 
 summer  and  the  summer  before  I  think  for 
 the  first  time  remained  green  and  the 
 goko  has  started  to  grow  it's  now  a 
 healthy  garden  that  doesn't  have  fungal 
 disease  in  the  lawn  in  the  summer  and 
 doesn't  have  Pest  and  disease  problem 
 it's  the  soil  that's  keeping  everything 
 healthy

---

 we  get  a  lot  of  questions  as  to  what 
 setting  all  these  spreaders  are 
 different  it's  hard  to  know  the  exact 
 right  amount  in  this  case  they're  not 
 all  like  this  but  this  has  settings  from 
 2  to  15  since  I  just  got  this  spreader 
 I'm  not  exactly  sure  what  the  proper 
 spreading  is  but  if  I  was  more  patient 
 and  wanted  to  take  some  time  I'd  measure 
 off  a  little  area  know  how  many  square 
 fet  it  is  weigh  some  of  this  product 
 figure  out  exactly  how  much  I  want  to 
 use  in  a  certain  area  and  then  with  math 
 figure  out  what  that  setting  should  be 
 but  I'm  not  that  patient  and  I  don't 
 have  that  much 
 time  I'm  going  to  do  a  heavy  application 
 which  is  about  10  lb  per  thousand  of 
 nourished  biosol  I'm  going  to  use  a 
 spreader  because  this  is  about  10,000 
 square  ft  you  see  me  throw  things  around 
 but  it's  a  lot  to  throw  around  on  this 
 I'm  used  to  spreading  nourish  bio  salt 
 and  it's  usually  towards  the  lower  end 
 of  the  settings  so  I'm  thinking  I'm 
 going  to  have  it  about  a  third  open  so 
 I'm  going  to  put  it  on  setting  number 
 four  and  then  I'm  going  to  pay  attention 
 as  I  do  the  first  load  and  see  how  it 
 seems  to  be  working  and  spreading  and  I 
 can  always  go  down  a  little  or  up  a 
 little  feels 
 like  maybe  we're 
 not  uh  we  don't  have  enough  of  an 
 opening  I'm  going  to  open  it  just  a 
 little  more  by  the  time  uh  we  finish 
 this  I'll  probably  be  able  to  tell  you 
 what  the  right  setting  is  so  you  can  see 
 it's  a  not  real  scientific  if  you're  not 
 used  to  using  your  spreader  once  you  get 
 used  to  it  you  know  the 
 setting  now  I  say  I'm  about  half  yeah  I 
 think  this  bag  is  going  to  do  the  whole 
 thing  which  is  50  lb  over  10,000  square 
 ft  but  I  want  double  that  I  want 
 um  I  want  100  lb  over  10,000  ft  so  I 
 think  what  I'll  do  is  I'll  just  finish 
 this  at  this 
 setting  and  then  I  might  step  it  up  just 
 a  little  and  put  another  bag  in  and  go 
 the  other 
 direction  okay  I'm  going  to  go  to 
 six  and  I'm  going  to  go  the  other 
 direction 
 and  I  think  that  should  work  we'll 
 see  here's  what  I  had  left  of  uh  about 
 50  lb  so  even  that  if  I  wanted  to  just 
 go  one  pass  is  way  too  small  so  if  I 
 were  to  guess  I'd  say  if  we  want  to  go 
 just  one  pass  we'd  go  about  number  eight 
 but  uh  if  I  were  to  start  over  and  just 
 want  to  make  one  pass  I'd 
 probably  I'd  probably  go  about  eight  um 
 based  on  what  I  know  now  because  I've 
 been  through  it  twice  and  I  see  what  I 
 have  left  I'm  going  to  increase  it  a 
 little  and  get  rid  of  the 
 rest  if  I  had  a  broom  I'd  sweep  this  but 
 I  don't  have  a  broom  but  their  Gardener 
 is  coming  soon  but  it  doesn't  stain  and 
 none  of  our  products  stain  even  the 
 products  with  iron  with  which  are  uh 
 known  to  stain  I  have  a  non-staining 
 iron  so  nothing  will  stain  if  you  leave 
 it  on  the  concrete  and  come  back  a  day 
 or  two  later  and  sweep  it  or  blow  it  off

---

 what  are  you  doing  or  what  do  you  plan 
 to  do  to  prep  for  the  garden  tour  this 
 is  it  I've  been  prepping  for  weeks 
 now  you'll  see  in  the  front  I  put  mulch 
 I  put  in  gravel  paths  and  uh  the  first 
 thing  I  did  was  order  my  uh  optimiz  and 
 my  fertilizer  and  got  that  in  the  ground 
 so  it'  be  showing  up  now  about  the  time 
 of  the 
 show  in  1995  there  was  a  pride  of 
 ownership  award  that  I  was  given  because 
 the  people  thought  I  put  a  lot  of  work 
 into  my 
 yard  I'm  John  Valentino  president  of 
 John  and  Bob's  Corporation  this  is  Chip 
 Valentino  he's  in  charge  of  travel  today 
 and  we  travel  to  this  beautiful  little 
 Garden  in  Merced  Dan  is  the  owner  and 
 Dan's  dog  Maddie  is  with  us  also  I'm  Dan 
 and  I've  lived  here  in  this  home  for 
 about  38  years  now  Maddie  is  around  here 
 somewhere  she  just  left  we  happened  to 
 be  here  right  at  the  beginning  of  Spring 
 even  though  it's  a  rainy  day  so  we  get 
 to  see  some  things  in  bloom  dogwoods  and 
 some  Red  Buds  and  Chamas  and  we're  going 
 to  show  you  Dan's  Garden  the  name  of  my 
 Cottage  actually  is  the  dogwoods  your 
 house  has  a  name  yes  it  does  I  like  that 
 so  here's  a  little  plaque  that  says  the 
 dogwoods  and  it  says  it  in  French  too 
 yeah  like  we  do  you  speak  French  uh  no 
 my  French  all  me  had  to  say  it 
 and  the  reason  it  is  called  the  Dogwood 
 in  the  front  yard  I  have  eight  dogwoods 
 different  various  varieties  and  in  the 
 back  I  have  two  they're  all  cornis 
 Florida  right  no  actually  there're  not 
 there's  some  kusas  here 
 too  that's  a  Florida  oh  that's  florid 
 these  are  the 
 cusa  these  three  are 
 cusa  Florida  Florida  Florida 
 Florida  cusa  I  just  planted  uh  some 
 cousa  is  at  the  Fresno  chaffy  zoo  that's 
 going  to  be  the  center  piece  of  an 
 exhibit  there  oh  wow  that'll  be 
 beautiful  the  white  ones  now  and  the 
 penguins  that  are  blooming  are  the 
 Florida  and  the  uh  kusas  won't  be 
 blooming  until  later  in  the  spring  so 
 you're  having  a  um  a  garden  tour  here 
 your  your  yard  is  on  a  garden  tour  a 
 Merced  garden  tour  right  my  good  friend 
 Ruth  asked  me  if  I'd  be  a  part  of  the 
 garden  tour  and  at  first  I  was  reluctant 
 but  she's  pretty  persistent  so  she 
 helped  me  with  the  Marty  gr  and  I  help 
 her  with  her  garden  show  right  here 
 they'll  have  a  keyboard  player  and  we're 
 going  to  have  my  artist  my  friend  Jackie 
 and  people  will  just  come  in  and  Mill 
 Mill  around  MH  and  then  you'll  be  in  the 
 front  driveway  uh  okay  so  I'm  going  to 
 come  to  it  and  uh  I'll  be  available  to 
 talk  about  John  and  Bob's  and  to  sell 
 some  product  if  people  want  to  buy  it 
 and  I'm  really  excited  about  that  talk 
 about  how  Dan  uses  it  uh  all  the  time 
 time  throughout  the  year  and  it's  the 
 key  to  the  beauty  of  this  Garden  we're 
 proud  of 
 that  he's  techier  than  he  looks  my  phone 
 is  my  key  you  don't  have  a  key  F  I  do 
 but  at  home  here  there's  aelas  there 
 aelas  look  great  yeah  and  they're  are 
 they  they're  just  starting  to  bloom 
 right  yeah  uh  they're  kind  of  mid-  Bloom 
 right  now  do  you  have  a  favorite 
 plant  this  one  yeah  this  uh  you  missed 
 it  but  it  was  called  it's  called  the 
 black  tulip  it's  purple  dark  dark 
 purple  and  it  never  opens  up  fully  it 
 looks  like  a  tulip  it's  way  darker  than 
 that  it  was  almost  it's  real  dark  purple 
 what  do  you  feed  your  cornis  cusa  with  I 
 use  your  optimiz  M  for  the  whole  yard 
 and  then  I  use  your  U  nurse  Nur  biosol 
 biosol  right  merid  has  Chayo 
 and  uh  so  I  do  use  the  penetrate  which 
 really  seems  to  work  well  and  I 
 concentrate  only  usually  using  it  in  the 
 area  where  I'm  going  to  plant  the  last 
 time  I  was  at  the  store  I  bought  five  uh 
 five  bags  of  the  one  pounders  so  you  buy 
 your  optimize  from  a  local  Nursery  right 
 right  for  my  friend  Jenna  Queen  an's 
 Garden  M  so  is  your  neighbors  a 
 dogwood  yeah  actually  that's  a  dog  I 
 planted 
 I  planted  all  those  Freez  in  yard  oh 
 this  little  dog  wood  I  got  it  in 
 Monteray  it  didn't  Bloom  this  year  poor 
 little  thing  it's  well  you're  going  to 
 have  all  kinds  of  dog  Woods  here  that's 
 what  they  call  it  the  dogs  it  looks  like 
 a  little  Forest  yeah  very  nice  sometimes 
 I  think  maybe  I  overdid 
 it  one  of  the  nice  things  about  after 
 using  these  products  for  so  many  years 
 anywhere  I  dig  in  my  garden  there  are 
 worms  who  it's  really  that's  fantastic 
 yeah  that's  what  we're  yeah  if  you  have 
 worms  then  that  means  some  kind  of 
 transformation  has  occurred  especially 
 after  you've  been  here  38  years  uh  and 
 you've  used  our  products  since  the  very 
 first  time  we  sold  them  you  thought  it 
 was  in  the  '90s  I  think  it  was  in  the 
 early  2000s  cuz  I  I  don't  believe  I  sold 
 them  in  the  '90s  but  I  could  be  wrong 
 this  is  what  it's  reverting  back  to  wow 
 look  at  that  oh  that's  the  Buddah  hand 
 yeah  this  is  the  Buddha  hand  and  I'm 
 hoping  that  these  will  not  be  like  this 
 but  unfortunately  I  think  they  are  the 
 Buddha  head  was  was  gorgeous  and  I  used 
 to  give  them  to  all  my  friends  but  yeah 
 huh  I've  never  seen  that  that  it  would 
 change  they  started 
 November  and  uh  here  it  is 
 March  no  April  my  gosh  right  now  they're 
 looking  kind  of  puny  that  kind  of  looks 
 like  a  cross  between  Sano  and  japo  I 
 don't  know  what  it  is  but  um  start  in 
 November  means  it's  it's  a  fall  blooming 
 one  but  now  we're  in  the  spring  this  is 
 another  one  that's 
 uh  okay  baby  that  one's  called  yellow 
 bird  now  here's  something  interesting 
 these  are  lur  pedms  and  they're 
 variegated  Jazz  heads  they  don't  grow 
 real  well  in  this  area  so  they  none  of 
 the  nurseries  have  them  here  I  look  all 
 the  way  from  Modesto  to  Fresno 
 and  no  one  had  them  so  I  ordered  them  on 
 Amazon  of  all  places  this  is  going  to  be 
 beautiful  cuz  this  will  this  one  buds 
 differently  than  the  other  Florida  oh 
 snails  snails  and  slugs  I  love  to  do 
 them  their  number  on  my  plants  so  what  I 
 find  myself  doing  is  getting  up  very 
 early  in  the  morning  and  going  out  and 
 picking  them  up  I've  also  use  the  uh 
 beer  method  uhhuh  with  a  pan  you  get  a 
 pie  pan  and  put  the  beer  in  it  stick  it 
 in  the  garden  and  uh  the  morning  find 
 some  snails  that  have  snails  that 
 have  that  have  G  A  Happ  gone  happily 
 yeah

---

 penetrate  is  an  organic  liquid  bio 
 Tiller  that  breaks  up  very  hard  clay  and 
 compacted  soil  it  contains  bacteria  and 
 food  for  bacteria  actually  food  for  all 
 kinds  of  microbes  which  kickstarts  the 
 process  of  building  complex  life  and 
 it's  complex  life  that  is  the  key  to 
 healthy  soil  penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller 
 can  easily  be  used  using  a  hose  in 
 sprayer  or  a  backpack  sprayer  or  a  big 
 bucket  combine  both  bottles  the  bacteria 
 and  the  food  for  the  bacteria  with  water 
 water  is  simply  the  vehicle  we  use  to 
 apply  the  product  so  there's  nothing 
 specific  about  the  amount  of  water  we 
 list  an  amount  on  the  label  but  you  can 
 use  way  more  or  you  can  use  way  less  we 
 just  need  to  get  the  right  amount  of 
 product  on  in  the  right  amount  of  area 
 it  can  be  applied  directly  to  soil  or 
 over  Mulch  and  drenching  the  soil  isn't 
 necessary  a  light  application  is  all  you 
 need  in  the  case  of  the  big  bucket  you'd 
 be  drenching  specific  areas  a  helpful 
 tip  on  a  backpack  sprayer  take  off  the 
 nozzle  which  allows  it  to  flow  out  more 
 and  makes  the  application  a  lot  faster 
 if  possible  allow  it  to  rest  for  a  few 
 days  after  you  apply  it  this  allows  for 
 the  establishment  of  the  beneficial 
 bacteria  without  being  disturbed 
 penetrate  can  also  be  sprayed  on  plant 
 foliage  to  combat  pests  and  disease 
 penetrate  works  great  on  lawns  plants  of 
 all  kinds  and  soil  of  all  kinds  the  name 
 infers  it's  only  for  heavy  soil  but  it's 
 great  for  sandy  soil  also  penetrate  and 
 blend  can  be  used  to  refresh  Planters 
 and  containers  which  makes  it  so  you'll 
 never  have  to  change  your  soil  you  can 
 even  grow  tomatoes  year  after  year  in 
 the  same  soil  if  you  use  penetrate  and 
 blend  together  on  an  annual  basis 
 penetrate  comes  in  an  8  o  and  a  32  o 
 size  8  oz  treats  about  1,000  squ  ft  32 
 oz  treats  about  4,000  square  ft  that's 
 what  I'm  holding  right  right  here  I 
 usually  do  General  applications  over 
 broad  areas  if  there's  specific  plants 
 or  areas  of  the  garden  that  need  more 
 specific  attention  then  I'll  concentrate 
 the  application  in  those  areas  a  helpful 
 tip  apply  Blend  or  any  of  our  dry 
 products  and  then  spray  penetrate  liquid 
 bioer  right  over  the  top  of  them  to 
 begin  to  activate  it  rather  than  waiting 
 for  rain  or  in  addition  to  waiting  for 
 rain  and  using  a  hose  penetrate  is  100% 
 organic  safe  for  people  and  pets  we 
 recommend  two  two  yearly  applications 
 spring  and  fall  but  it's  usable  all 
 throughout  the  year  only  maybe  not  in 
 the  coldest  winter  areas  in  the  middle 
 of  the  winter  for  the  most  comprehensive 
 results  you  just  penetrate  with  our 
 other 
 products

---

 blend  is  a  proportional  mix  of  our  top 
 three  dry  products  optimize  maximize  and 
 nourish  biosol  optimize  is  concentrated 
 organic  matter  calcium  and  iron  it 
 attracts  and  feeds  zillions  of 
 beneficial  soil  microbes  maximize 
 contains  every  mineral  in  the  periodic 
 table  and  it  has  higher  level  microbes 
 bacteria  fungi  protozoa  nourished  biosol 
 is  an  allnatural  fertilizer  and  soil 
 Builder  made  from  the  cultures  of 
 soybean  meal  and  cotton  seed  meal 
 together  these  three  products  provide 
 you  with  our  most  comprehensive  and  fast 
 soil  building  results  as  well  as  feeding 
 all  your  plants  simultaneously  we 
 recommend  you  use  blend  within  60  days 
 because  sometimes  it  goes  to  work  in  the 
 bag  if  you  try  to  store  it  for  longer 
 especially  if  there's  heat  involved  if 
 you're  concerned  about  this  you  can  buy 
 the  products  separately  and  that  allows 
 you  to  store  them  indefinitely  and  then 
 you  mix  it  yourself  use  a  recipe  of  one 
 two  three  one  part  optimize  two  parts 
 nourish  biosol  three  parts  maximize 
 blend  can  easily  be  applied  by  hand  no 
 need  to  till  it  in  blend  is  great  for 
 lawns  and  plants  and  trees  and  shrubs 
 and  flowers  and  vegetables  of  all  kinds 
 it  can  be  used  with  penetrate  liquid  bio 
 tiller  in  raised  Planters  and  pots 
 you'll  never  have  to  change  your  soil 
 again  if  you  annually  treat  it  with 
 blend  and  penetrate  liquid  bioer  for 
 Planters  and  containers  double  the 
 application  rate  when  using  blend  for 
 small  plants  and  starters  use  one  cup 
 for  small  trees  and  shrubs  use  1  and  1/2 
 cups  for  large  trees  and  shrubs  use 
 three  cups  six  lb  bag  of  blend  treats 
 about  350  square  ft  don't  worry  you 
 don't  need  to  be  precise  you  can't  burn 
 it  and  you  can't  over  apply  so  if  you 
 want  to  use  twice  that  much  that's  fine 
 we're  giving  you  a  rate  at  which  we 
 think  you  get  your  best  value  I  usually 
 apply  over  broad  areas  and  if  specific 
 plants  are  struggling  I  put  more  in 
 those  areas  and  do  some  Target  feeding 
 blend  is  activated  by  water  if  you  have 
 drip  irrigation  it'd  be  nice  toly  it 
 when  you're  still  going  to  have  some 
 rain  or  you  can  use  your  own  hose  and 
 sprinklers  but  you  don't  need  to  water 
 it  in  if  you  don't  want  to  right  away  it 
 can  sit  there  without  burning  anything 
 blend  is  100%  organic  safe  for  people 
 and  pets  blend  comes  in  a  6  lb  and  40  lb 
 bag  we  recommend  two  applications  in 
 Spring  and  fall  but  sometimes  in  July 
 people  will  ask  me  when  should  I  use  it 
 and  the  answer  is  as  soon  as 
 possible

---

 nourished  biosol  is  an  allnatural 
 fertilizer  and  soil  Builder  made  from 
 the  cultures  of  soybean  meal  and  cotton 
 seed  meal  nourished  biosol  is  quite 
 unique  in  that  it  contains  no  animal 
 products  which  is  unusual  for  an  organic 
 fertilizer  and  it  is  non-  GMO  nourished 
 biosol  can  easily  be  applied  by  hand  or 
 with  a  whirly  bird  spreader  it  can  be 
 applied  over  bare  soil  or  over  Mulch  and 
 there's  no  need  to  till  it  in  nurse 
 bassol  is  great  for  all  plants  and  Lawns 
 and  trees  and  everything  you  want  to 
 grow  for  lawns  it  improves  color  pretty 
 quickly  there's  no  nitrogen  spikes  never 
 Burns  and  naturally  helps  soil  provide 
 nitrogen  phosphorus  and  pottassium  we're 
 trying  to  build  soil  that  can  produce 
 its  own  macronutrients  for  small  plants 
 and  starters  use  a/4  cup  for  small  trees 
 and  shrubs  use  half  a  cup  for  large 
 trees  and  shrubs  use  one  cup  a  six  pound 
 bag  like  this  treats  a  th000  square  feet 
 Precision  isn't  key  when  applying 
 because  you  can't  over  apply  and  you 
 can't  burn  it  so  you  can  be  as  generous 
 as  you'd  like  we  provide  the  6  lb  per 
 thousand  to  give  you  the  greatest  value 
 we  usually  apply  over  broad  areas  and 
 only  apply  to  specific  plants  if  they 
 are  in  need  of  extra  nutrition  nurish 
 biosol  is  activated  by  water  if  you  have 
 grip  irrigation  it'd  be  nice  to  ply  it 
 when  you're  still  going  to  have  some 
 rain  or  you  can  use  your  own  hose  and 
 sprinklers  but  you  don't  need  to  water 
 it  in  if  you  don't  want  to  right  away  it 
 can  sit  there  without  burning  anything 
 nurse  Bol  is  100%  organic  safe  for 
 people  and  pets  we  offer  it  in  a  6  lb  24 
 lb  and  50  lb  bag  we  recommend  two 
 applications  in  Spring  and  fall  for  lawn 
 in  order  to  maximize  color  use  it  every 
 8  to  12  weeks  over  time  time  that  will 
 lessen  because  we'll  be  producing  soil 
 that  produces  its  own  macronutrients  for 
 the  most  comprehensive  results  used 
 nourish  biosol  with  our  other 
 products

---

 maximize  contains  every  mineral  in  the 
 periodic  table  and  it  has  higher  level 
 microbes  bacteria  fungi  protozoa  the 
 microbes  digest  thatch  and  Dead  Leaves 
 and  start  a  cycle  that's  very  productive 
 for  the  life  of  your  soil  maximize  can 
 easily  be  applied  by  hand  and  it  can  be 
 applied  onto  bare  soil  or  onto  mulch 
 there's  no  need  to  till  it  in  it's  great 
 to  apply  maximize  next  to  Roots  it 
 contains  microa  which  attaches  itself  to 
 roots  AIDS  in  nutrition  stimulation  of 
 root  growth  and  it  aids  in  disease 
 suppression  maximizes  fantastic  for 
 lawns  and  plants  of  all  kinds  and  soil 
 of  all  kinds  for  small  plants  and 
 starters  use  38  of  a  cup  for  small  trees 
 and  shrubs  use  3/4  of  a  cup  for  large 
 trees  and  shrubs  use  1  and  1/2  cups  this 
 8  lb  bag  treats  1,000  square  ft  the 
 applications  don't  need  to  be  precise 
 and  you  can't  overly  it  and  really  the 
 more  the  better  we've  given  you  a  rate 
 which  we  think  gives  you  the  best  value 
 we  usually  put  on  the  recommended  rate 
 over  large  areas  and  then  put  a  little 
 extra  on  specific  plants  that  aren't 
 doing  well  and  and  need  help  maximize  is 
 activated  by  water  so  if  you  want  it  to 
 work  at  some  point  you  have  to  water  it 
 but  you  don't  have  to  water  it  right 
 when  you  put  it  on  if  you  have  drip 
 irrigation  it'd  be  nice  to  apply  it  when 
 you're  still  going  to  have  some  rain  and 
 also  you  can  use  a  hose  if  you'd  like  or 
 you  can  just  wait  and  eventually  it'll 
 be  activated  by  moisture  it's  100% 
 organic  safe  for  people  and  pets  maximiz 
 is  available  in  an  8  lb  bag  and  a  32lb 
 bag  we  recommend  two  applications  during 
 the  year  spring  and  fall  is  the  best  for 
 the  fastest  most  comprehensive  results 
 use  maximize  with  our  other 
 products

---



---

 if  you  need  to  get  your  lawn  looking 
 great  for  an  event  you  can  do  something 
 a  little  extra  to  make  your  lawn  look 
 almost  perfect  that  day  let's  look  at 
 how  we  get  this  lawn  ready  for  an  April 
 20th 
 wedding  chip  what  special  events  um 
 could  we  have  at  our  house  well  we're 
 going  to  one  on  Easter  to  our  uncle's 
 house  so  he  wants  that  lawn  looking 
 great  birthdays  Father's  Day  is  a  good 
 one  Mother's  Day  is  a  good  one  because 
 those  are  during  the  growing 
 seasons  a  month  out  like  we  are  now  the 
 approach  would  be  very  similar  on  any 
 kind  of  lawn  that  we  planning  to  have  an 
 event  on  fertilizing  it  watering  it  just 
 perfectly  mowing  it  frequently  getting 
 it  to  grow  as  much  as  we  can  we  want  it 
 as  healthy  as  possible  and  as  green  as 
 possible  I  try  to  avoid  using 
 pre-emergence  if  I  can  because  they're 
 not  good  for  soil  sometimes  it's  hard  to 
 avoid  and  in  this  case  it  was  overrun  by 
 crab  grass  this  is  the  crab  rest  that 
 didn't  come  back  it's  not  going  to  come 
 back  because  we  applied  dimension  on 
 about  January  17th  that  timing  has  to  be 
 about  right  so  that  the  seed  doesn't 
 Sprout  again  when  weather  starts  to  get 
 warm  like  today  you  can  apply  a 
 preemergent  even  now  especially  in 
 climates  that  have  had  winter  till  now 
 then  a  pre-emergent  will  still  work  you 
 can  apply  a  pre-emergent  anytime  really 
 it's  just  that  will  it  be  at  its  maximum 
 Effectiveness  and  maximum  effectiveness 
 is  impacted  by 
 weather  if  something  like  Bermuda  that 
 spreads  like  crazy  then  you  can  feel 
 bare  spots  if  you  had  you  know  a  grass 
 that  doesn't  spread  like  that  like 
 Fescue  or  blue  grass  they  spread  very 
 gradually  then  you  will  have  to  rely 
 more  on  overseeding  in  our  area  this  is 
 a  fine  time  to  overseed  too  we  could 
 overseed  but  what  we  want  to  do  is  make 
 this  Bermuda  lawn  the  over  seating 
 wouldn't  encourage  the  Bermuda  at  all  in 
 fact  there's  some  competition  that  goes 
 on  when  you  overseed  so  you're  kind  of 
 um  delaying  the  progress  of  the  Bermuda 
 filling  in  if  over  seating  is  your 
 strategy  to  get  your  lawn  looking  good 
 you  need  to  give  it  enough  time  to 
 germinate  and  then  root  and  be  sturdy  to 
 take  traffic  you  know  it'll  look  good  in 
 two  weeks  it  will  have  just  come  up 
 looked  beautiful  but  it  will  also  be  not 
 well  rooted  and  so  it  wouldn't  take 
 traffic  very  well  so  you'd  need  five  or 
 six  weeks  for  it  to  be  in  a  position  to 
 take 
 traffic  since  they  have  a  special 
 occasion  coming  some  and  they  want  that 
 lawn  as  green  as  possible  we're  going  to 
 feed  the  lawn  feed  the  soil  with  the 
 nourished  biosol  and  then  I'm  going  to 
 consider  depending  on  what  it  looks  like 
 in  2  or  3  weeks  one  shot  of  a  synthetic 
 fertilizer  high  in  nitrogen  I'm  going  to 
 do  a  heavy  application  which  is  about  10 
 lbs  per  thousand  of  nourished  biosol  I'm 
 going  to  use  a  spreader  because  this  is 
 about  10,000  ft  feet  I  you  see  me  throw 
 things  around  but  it's  a  lot  to  throw 
 around  on 
 this  the  nice  thing  is  sometimes  when 
 you  make  a  turn  you  drop  some  it  won't 
 burn  you  don't  have  to  worry  about  it 
 we've  got  some  rain  coming  so  we're 
 going  to  use  rain  to  water  it 
 in  so  this  is  uh  considered  a  weed 
 Oxalis  and  it  there's  a  lot  of  it  in 
 this  lawn  for  now  we're  going  to  ignore 
 it  the  pre-emergent  didn't  do  much  to 
 the  Oxalis  there  are  ways  to  kill  it  we 
 would  need  a  chemical  but  we're  going  to 
 see  if  we  can  get  the  on  looking  great 
 with  the  Oxalis  and  maybe  discourage  it 
 a  little  bit  with  real  strong 
 growth  very  unique  in  that  this  is 
 completely  plant-based  no  meat  products 
 in  it  at 
 all  what's  really  neat  about  nourished 
 biosol  is  it's  feeding  the  lawn  but 
 we're  also  feeding  the  soil  and  there's 
 not  many  fertilizers  that  do  that 
 getting  the  soil  and  the  lawn  as  healthy 
 as  we  can  get  it  will  help  it  recover 
 fast  and  really  recovery  from  a  one-  day 
 event  usually  isn't  a  problem  at  all 
 it's  when  you  have  repeated 
 events  so  if  we  want  to  use  a  synthetic 
 fertilizer  in  terms  of  color  it  will  do 
 so  in  7  to  10  days  but  what  we  want  to 
 do  here  more  than  just  color  is  maximum 
 growth  because  we're  trying  to  get  it  to 
 spread  and  fill  in  all  these  bare  areas 
 the  combination  of  a  lot  of  growing  and 
 mowing  will  make  Bermuda  cover  up 
 quickly  that's  going  to  be  my  strategy 
 for  making  this  lawn  really  really  green 
 and  healthy  and  relatively  thick  and 
 dense  because  we  don't  want  people  to  be 
 walking  on  dirt  you  can  throw  all  the 
 synthetic  fertilizer  you  want  on  there 
 and  if  the  temperatures  are  not  warm 
 enough  it's  not  going  to  respond  so 
 we're  just  at  the  spot  where  we  have  the 
 right  temperatures  that'll  give  us  about 
 a  month  before  the  wedding  and  that's  a 
 good  amount  of  time  in  order  to 
 encourage  growth  and  it'll  look 
 completely  different  lawn  usually  looks 
 best  right  after  it's  mowed  so  I'd  say 
 the  day  before  the  event  is  a  good  time 
 to  mow  even  two  days  before  the  event  is 
 a  good  time  to  mow  also  usually  when  you 
 mow  you've  plann  the  watering  so  that 
 the  soil  isn't  real  wet  and  that's  good 
 for  the  event  too  we  want  it  dry  enough 
 to  mow  and  then  dry  enough  to  be  firm 
 and  not  moist  at  all  it's  a  bad  idea  to 
 water  before  the  event  hopefully  chip 
 and  I  have  helped  you  for  your  upcoming 
 event  you  can  ask  us  questions  about 
 your  specific 
 situation

---

 we're  at  an  existing  Garden  here  in 
 Fresno  California  and  I  get  a  lot  of 
 questions  about  how  you  treat 
 underperforming  plants  in  existing 
 Gardens  uh  where  did  Chip  go  he's 
 filming  somewhere  we'll  walk  you  through 
 it  with  chip  and  give  you  a  few  comments 
 on  what  we're  going  to  try  to  treat  and 
 then  we'll  use  our  blend  and  our 
 penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller  to  jump 
 start  all  the  underperforming  plants 
 since  it's  spring  we're  pretty  much 
 going  to  feed  the  soil  and  the  plants  on 
 everything  but  we're  going  to  give 
 particular  attention  to  the  things  that 
 are  underperforming  so  Chip  and  I  are 
 going  to  take  a  look  at  what  we  need  to 
 treat  the  whole  garden  is  encircled  with 
 Carolina  Cherry  as  a  screen  they  want  it 
 to  be  as  dense  and  as  thick  as  possible 
 and  as  healthy  as  possible  and  you  can 
 see  some  places  in  the  back  it's 
 stronger  growing  than  others  anything  in 
 a  container  we're  going  to  use  it  in 
 there  because  it's  great  on  containers 
 and  it  revitalizes  the  soil  in  a  way 
 that  you  never  have  to  replace  the  soil 
 we'll  probably  shoot  a  little  penetrate 
 liquid  bio  tiller  in  there  too  this  tree 
 was  planted  within  the  last  year  or  two 
 because  of  a  tree  that  they  had  a 
 problem  with  we  want  to  get  this  looking 
 more  like  a  mature  tree  it's  a  crepe 
 myrtle  so  we  will  feed  that  the  bird  of 
 paradise  are  doing  pretty  well  these 
 roses  are  performing  pretty  well  with 
 the  Rosemary  Rosemary  has  some  Woody 
 spots  so  we'll  feed  all  of  that 
 pomegranate  is  going  to  Leaf  out  soon 
 over  there  there's  a  couple  of  chlorotic 
 white  Chamas  so  we're  going  to  really 
 focus  on  those  with  quite  a  bit  of  blend 
 we  have  an  area  here  that  hasn't  done 
 well  they  keep  having  trouble  with 
 boxwood  dying  so  we're  going  to  take 
 this  little  planting  of  boxwood  out 
 we're  going  to  plant  new  one  gallon  ones 
 and  we're  going  to  treat  the  soil  this 
 area  is  what  the  owner  originally  called 
 me  about  she  has  roses  that  she  just 
 hasn't  been  able  to  get  to  perform  and 
 some  died  before  she  had  a  single  row  of 
 roses  right  along  that  edge  some  are 
 doing  poorly  some  are  gone  if  we  can  get 
 those  looking  good  then  we'll  replant 
 where  they're  missing  and  reestablish 
 the  original  intent  of  this  design  we 
 have  some  redwoods  here  and  there  that 
 don't  look  as  good  as  they  could  usually 
 it's  a  combination  of  soil  and  a  lack  of 
 summer  water  and  you  can  see  the 
 Redwoods  that  are  closer  to  the  lawn  are 
 looking  more  Lush  my  supposition  is  they 
 get  a  little  more  water  we'll  treat  all 
 of  this  normally  everything  is  looking 
 pretty  good  here  there's  some  chamia  a 
 sanqua  at  the  end  here  that  need  a 
 little  help  Japanese  maple  looks  good 
 and  then  the  front  yard  is  very  similar 
 there  are  some  roses  that  need  some 
 special  attention  you  can  see  they  have 
 some  Citrus  if  you  want  to  maximize 
 Bloom  and  fruiting  and  vitality  of  fruit 
 trees  the  best  way  to  do  that  is  feed 
 the  soil  you  see  a  little  bit  little  bit 
 of  chlorotic  yellowing  on  the  leaves  and 
 it's  not  necessary  that  we  use  something 
 different  for  fruit  trees  and  for  Roses 
 we're  able  to  just  do  a  general 
 treatment  and  focus  on  things  that  need 
 a  little  help  I  think  this  exactly 
 addresses  a  question  I  just  recently 
 gotten  we  get  a  lot  of  I  have  some  trees 
 that  aren't  quite  doing  what  I'd  like 
 they're  alive  but  they're  not  thriving 
 what  do  we  do  well  you  can  go  into  your 
 existing  garden  and  bolster  that  soil 
 usually  it's  an  issue  of  soil  or  water 
 or  both  okay  chip  now  don't  run 
 off  oh  you  want  to  go  in 
 there 
 so  these  are  concentrated  products  so 
 you  can  carry  them  in  the  back  of  your 
 car  some  you  can  even  carry  in  your 
 glove  compartment  they're  so  small 
 that's  what  this  is  really  a 
 concentrated  good  quality  compost  much 
 easier  to  apply  than  a  good  quality 
 compost  so  in  this  yard  front  and  back 
 lawn  and  everything  I'm  using  120  lb  of 
 blend  so  three  40  lb  bags  let's  go  chip 
 hey  you  you  can't  film  there 
 I'm  going  to  put  it  on  about  18  lb  per 
 thousand  that's  a  little  bit  of  a  heavy 
 application  standard  is  about  17  lb  per 
 th  so  I  go  18  to 
 20  excuse  me  we  recommend  a  rate  to  try 
 to  get  you  the  most  value  you  could  buy 
 regular  chemical  fertilizer  but  that's 
 not  going  to  build  your  soil  that's  not 
 going  to  make  your  soil 
 rich  so  these  daes  usually  have  problems 
 with  summer  heat  in  terms  of  building 
 the  soil  with  microbiology  that's  going 
 to  allow  any  plant  to  tolerate  hot 
 weather  better  as  you  can  see  I'm 
 throwing  it  on  by  hand  in  tight  spots 
 like  this  you  could  use  a  whirly  bird 
 spreader  but  I  like  just  throwing  it  on 
 and  uh  getting  all  dirty  almost  falling 
 in  the  pool  we  got  some  cyst  right  in 
 front  of  me  that's  been  cut  back  so 
 we're  going  to  feed  that  generous  ly 
 we're  going  to  feed  the  Citrus  all  in 
 the  root  Zone  and  then  we're  going  to 
 get  all  of  these  Carolina  cherries  that 
 are  along  the  property  line  this  area 
 that  has  these  problem  boxwood  that  keep 
 dying  we'll  throw  it  on  here  but  we're 
 going  to  take  these  out  either  later 
 today  or  tomorrow  so  I'm  not  going  to  do 
 it  very  heavily  and  then  this  is  the 
 area  where  we  have  the  problem  roses  uh 
 these  tree  roses  aren't  so  big  a  problem 
 but  all  of  these  roses  haven't  bloomed 
 right  and  some  of  them  have  died  and  so 
 we're  going  to  be  very  generous  with 
 them  so  if  you'd  like  to  see  this  Garden 
 when  it  responds  to  our  treatments  make 
 sure  you  subscribe  these  are  doing 
 pretty  well  but  we'll  make  them  do 
 better  this  soil  tends  to  be  kind  of  a 
 heavy  hard  clay  soil  a  mulch  layer  would 
 be  good  on  this  too  but  just  our 
 products  will  make  a  huge  difference  now 
 we're  going  to  treat  under  this  Redwood 
 as  generously  as  possible  we  got  a  few 
 fenia  over  here  another  smaller  Redwood 
 try  to  get  it  to  catch 
 up  okay  that's  all  the 
 blend  ah  there  it 
 is  now  one  of  the  interesting  things  is 
 even  though  on  our  label  it  says  8  O  per 
 gallon  of  water  doesn't  really  matter 
 how  much  water  you  use  just  as  long  as 
 you  put  the  right  amount  in  the  right 
 square  footage  it's  just  the  carrier  of 
 the  product  this  will  treat  4,000  square 
 feet  so  that's  the  whole  idea 
 concentrated  products  that  have  the  most 
 beneficial  parts  of  a  good  quality 
 compost  in  them  in  this  case  a 
 beneficial  bacteria  so  we're  going 
 around  all  these  roses  that  have  been 
 not 
 performing  and  even  on  the  ones  that 
 have  been  performing  we're  going  to  try 
 to  get  them  to  do  better  maybe  throw  a 
 little  in 
 the  Rosemary  I  generally  like  to  put 
 penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller  over  the  top 
 of 
 Blend  or 
 optimize  or  um  nourish  biosol  because 
 those  need  to  be  watered  in  anyhow  and 
 uh  the  products  are  extremely 
 complimentary  and  work  great  together 
 okay  these 
 Chamas  not  performing  that  well  so  we're 
 going  to  boost  them  with  the  penetrate 
 right  over  the  top  of  the  blend  right  in 
 the  root 
 Zone  we  fed  all  the  Redwoods  with  a 
 blend  and  the  one  that  looks  the  worst 
 we're  going  to  put  some  uh  penetrate 
 over  the  top  too  and  uh  this  is  what  I 
 would  do  on  any  trees  that  look  like 
 they're  underperforming  in  your  garden 
 and  you  could  just  put  the  penetrate  in 
 a  big  bucket  and  Drench  it  I  chose  to 
 put  it  in  this  backpack  spare  cuz  it 
 allows  me  to  get  more  areas  I  usually 
 take  the  nozzle  off  so  it  just  comes  out 
 in  the 
 Stream  we  could  do  it  over  the  lawn  I'm 
 kind  of  saving  it  for  just  uh  the  real 
 underperforming  areas  it's  great  on  lawn 
 though  this  OS  mantis  fragrance  hasn't 
 done  real  well  here  we're  going  to  try 
 to  boost  it  and  these  roses  aren't 
 blooming  like  they  should  could  be 
 getting  a  little  more  shade  than  we  want 
 but  we're  going  to  boost  the  soil  and 
 the  same  thing  on  the  other  side  we  get 
 some  on  the  leaves  it's  fine  you  know 
 spraying  is  when  you  get  the  fastest 
 results  because  everything's  working  you 
 know  the  soil's  alive  everything  is  in 
 the  time  of  the  year  for  growth  we  might 
 see  some  good  results  within  two  months 
 so  to  follow  the  progress  in  this  Garden 
 subscribe  to  our  Channel  and  we'll  show 
 you  how  we  progress  if  you  have  any 
 questions  about  your  own  garden  leave  a 
 comment  what  I  like  to  see  is  how  the 
 plants  and  the  soil  and  your  garden  and 
 your  landscape  respond  to  the  treatment 
 before  I  say  exactly  when  the  next  one 
 should  be  we  can  see  one  or  two 
 responses  and  gauge  what  problems 
 persist  in  the  garden  we  can  come  up 
 with  more  of  a  long-term  strategy  so  I'm 
 sorry  for  that  being  a  little  bit  vague 
 if  I  was  forced  to  say  I  don't  want  to 
 monitor  it  I  just  want  to  make  an 
 application  I'd  say  make  an  application 
 every  6  months  and  if  you  say  you  don't 
 want  make  an  application  every  6  months 
 even  once  a  year  we'll  do  a  lot  just  it 
 won't  happen  as  fast  and  if  you  have 
 specific  Pest  and  disease  problems  they 
 might  Linger  Longer  we'll  monitor  it 
 we'll  see  how  those  Roses  do  we'll 
 probably  do  it  every  6  months  or  so  here

---

 the  owner  called  me  recently  and  asked 
 me  to  spruce  up  the  center  planting 
 we'll  show  you  that  Center  planting  and 
 all  the  plantings  we  did  here  at  Saison 
 restaurant  you  can  get  some  ideas  on 
 design  on  tropical  plants  on  plants  in 
 containers  and  on  designing  around 
 patios  so  let's  go  check  it  out  right  in 
 the  beginning  here  we  did  a  little 
 narrow  planting  along  the  edge  of  the 
 patio  that's  just  doing  fantastic  and 
 it's  really  just  two  plants  dianella  and 
 russelia  St  Elmo's  Fire  both  of  these 
 plants  are  appropriate  because  it's  a 
 it's  a  Mexican  style  restaurant  with 
 really  kind  of  elegant  Mexican  dishes 
 and  this  I  think  gives  the  right  feel  in 
 fact  russelia  s  Elmos  Fire  is  native  to 
 the  Southwest  these  olive  trees  that  you 
 see  here  we  added  they  were  pruned  so 
 that  you  can  kind  of  see  through  them 
 and  so  that  we  could  plant  under  them 
 the  idea  is  to  make  it  look  Lush  and  try 
 to  pick  things  that  look  appropriate  for 
 the  style  of  restaurant  that  it  is  here 
 you  can  see  this  row  of  uh  I  see  it  has 
 some  suckers  we  need  to  get  rid  of  this 
 row  of  Tango  Citrus  we  want  those  to 
 grow  up  a  little  taller  so  that  you  can 
 see  them  out  of  the  restaurant  so  we 
 just  did  the  planting  right  along  the 
 edges  of  the  patio  let's  go  in  and  uh 
 talk  about  uh  the  inside  and  talk  about 
 this  planting  that  the  owner  would  like 
 to 
 improve  hi  there  where's  Chip  a  fan  of 
 Chip 
 you  know  this  is  like  one  of  the  rare 
 times  that  Chip's  not  here  because  he 
 was  going  for  a  walk  with  my  wife  so  I  I 
 wish  I  wish  he  was  here  cuz  chip  likes 
 to  see 
 fans  in  the  restaurant  itself  it  has  a 
 lot  of  pots  that  are  watered  with  drip 
 irrigation  that  drain  without  staining 
 this  nice  pvers  because  we  installed  it 
 so  that  the  waste  water  from  the  pots 
 goes  straight  in  we  we  just  put  a  good 
 potting  soil  in  there  and  we  use  our 
 blend  and  penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller 
 fantastic  for  pots  makes  it  so  you  never 
 have  to  change  the  potting  soil  you  only 
 might  have  to  refresh  them  a  little  bit 
 these  are  the  olive  trees  that  we  moved 
 in  and  then  we  planted  densely 
 underneath  with  these  exposures  hard  to 
 have  color  all  the  time  but  we  did  a 
 combination  of  Leaf  color  and  things 
 like  salvia  lopy  but  probably  even  more 
 importantly  is  just  The  Rustic  trunks  of 
 the  olive  trees  they  really  form  the 
 theme  of  the  restaurant  and  all  of  them 
 are  doing  pretty  well  this  one 
 particularly  has  lots  of  ginger  lily 
 growing  like  crazy  this  was  my  favorite 
 olive  tree  trunk  looking  like  it's  been 
 there  about  50  60  years  which  is  what 
 they  were  after  we  were  able  to  do  that 
 with  just  a  transplanted  tree  what  I 
 like  to  do  When  selecting  plants  is  put 
 in  all  the  parameters  and  once  once  you 
 list  all  of  those  things  you're  kind  of 
 directed  to  not  very  many  plants  and 
 then  it's  easy  to  to  pick  one  or  more 
 this  is  the  area  that  the  owner  wanted 
 us  to  address  this  is  actually  planted 
 in  the  ground  and  this  is  actually  an 
 outdoor  patio  not  connected  to  the 
 building  I  can  see  some  things  that  we 
 planted  haven't  made  it  some  things  have 
 leaves  that  don't  look  so  good  so  what 
 we're  going  to  do  is  we're  going  to  do 
 some  pruning  on  the  leaves  that  don't 
 look  good  and  then  we're  going  to  do  do 
 some  additions  I  had  to  see  it  before  I 
 knew  what  I  wanted  to  add  so  I  don't 
 have  those  plants  with  me  but  we'll  come 
 back  this  ginger  lily  has  some  looking 
 really  good  and  some  looking  bad  so  I'm 
 just  going  to  prune  out  the  bad  part  wow 
 this  banana  is  kind  of  they  had  to  stake 
 it  kind  of  wants  to  fall 
 over  we  might  put  another  steak  on  this 
 we  want  to  take  off  all  of  these  fronds 
 that  don't  look  so  good 
 one  of  the  things  we're  going  to  do  is 
 try  to  trim  off  anything  that  looks 
 Brown  and  uh  then  we'll  encourage  New 
 Growth  with  the 
 feeding  try  to  get  as  low  as  you  can  you 
 if  the  leaf  it  mostly  looks  not  so  good 
 we'll  take  it  off  and  try  to  get  a  new 
 sprout 
 um  I  think  I'm  going  to  take  off  this 
 Leaf  here  that  looks  more  Brown  than 
 green  then  I  got  to  bring  in  the  new 
 plants  and  straighten  that  banana  and  I 
 think  with  the  new  plants  we  can  also 
 hide  everything  I  cut  off  for  most 
 everything  I  cut 
 off  okay  we're  ready  to 
 roll 
 chips  waiting  for  his  food  he  ordered 
 this  interesting  um  Pizza  they  serve 
 here  with  raw 
 tuna  they  serve  absolutely  delicious 
 food  in  this  patio  it's  really  a  great 
 restaurant  you  should  try  it  maybe  you 
 need  to  come  to  Fresno  just  to  try 
 Saison  it's  worth  the  trip  it's  uh  one 
 of  our  best  so  we  added  to  the  uh 
 tropical  mixture  there  in  the 
 centerpiece  of  this  patio  one  lady  Palm 
 which  we  shine  the  leaves  with  beer  just 
 straight  beer  just  cleaned  all  the 
 leaves  and  that's  a  good  way  to  make 
 them  look  nice  and  shiny  and  three  5 
 gallon  Ginger  lies  that'll  fill  in 
 around  the  bottom  part  all  of  the 
 understory  plants  that  we  had  planted 
 were  missing  and  so  we're  replacing 
 those  understory  plants  with  something  a 
 little  taller  which  makes  a  really  nice 
 tropical  mixture  here  the  design  really 
 works  around  that  when  doing  plant 
 combinations  as  I've  said  in  other 
 videos  we  want  we  don't  want  it  to  give 
 you  a  headache  so  we  want  some 
 continuity  in  the  planting  we're  trying 
 to  come  up  with  a  plant  pallet  that 
 doesn't  have  30  plants  in  it  in  these 
 small  spaces  we  want  to  stick  to  a 
 pallet  that's  relatively  consistent  and 
 simple  so  that  it's  pleasing  and  it  it's 
 not  a  mess  on  these  plantings  that  we 
 just  finished  uh  we  are  adding  six  lbs 
 of  blend  and  one  4  Gall  solution  of 
 penetrate  liquid  bioer  and  we're  just 
 going  drench  the  whole  area  right  before 
 we  leave  you  can  hear  some  pounding 
 we're  uh  reaking  the  banana  in  this  case 
 the  staking  isn't  any  kind  of  textbook 
 staking  we're  just  trying  to  get  the 
 banana  to  orient  the  way  we  want  it  to 
 and  in  a  way  where  you  don't  see  the 
 steak  the  leaves  cover  it  and  we're 
 going  to  make  it  so  the  level  of  it  is 
 very  low  and  we  pull  that  banana  on  the 
 low  part  of  its  trunk  most  jobs  like 
 this  would  be  overplanted  because  you 
 know  it's  a  restaurant  we're  trying  to 
 to  get  an  instant  effect  and  and  these 
 are  overplanted  but  there's  nothing 
 wrong  with  over  planting  especially  in 
 the  beginning  it's  fantastic  it  might 
 result  you  know  two  to  four  or  five 
 years  down  the  road  maybe  you  have  to 
 thin  out  the  plantings  if  everything 
 does  fantastic  thank  you  very  much  for 
 watching  please  subscribe  please  uh  have 
 other  of  your  friends  and  relatives  and 
 neighbors  watch  more  of  our  videos  we 
 need  more  views  chip  is  excited  that  we 
 went  over  30,000  now  we're  headed  to 
 50,000  help  us  get  us  there  and  if  you 
 want  us  to  answer  any  questions  let  us 
 [Music] 
 know

---

 we're  here  today  at  a  garden  that  we're 
 going  to  walk  around  and  tell  you  all 
 about  uh  what  it  needs  in  spring  so  you 
 can  apply  this  to  your  own  landscape  or 
 garden  and  hopefully  we'll  answer  all 
 your  spring  questions  I'm  John  Valentino 
 president  of  John  and  Bobs  this  is  Chip 
 Valentino  who  is  vice  president  in 
 charge  of  spring 
 preparation  okay  we'll  start  with  the 
 front  yard  as  you  can  see  it  looks 
 fantastic  and  the  owners  are  real 
 pleased  they  changed  the  colors  of  their 
 house  we'll  show  you  what  it  used  to 
 look  like  but  they  changed  the  black 
 they  got  rid  of  almost  all  the  black  you 
 can  see  this  area  in  front  of  this 
 Courtyard  wall  was  set  up  with  lantana 
 we  mixed  a  purple  and  white  trailing 
 Lantana  and  it  has  covered  in  pretty 
 good  we'd  like  it  to  be  denser  and  we'd 
 like  it  to  be  kind  of  all  one  level  so 
 what  we're  going  to  do  just  as  spring 
 arrives  is  we're  going  to  cut  the  top  of 
 it  off  to  encourage  spreading  we  want  it 
 to  be  lower  than  the  Salvia  behind  it 
 and  the  rosem  Mar  behind  it  we're  trying 
 to  create  this  teered  effect  we're 
 trying  to  pick  plants  that  grow  the 
 right  size  rather  than  have  to  Club  them 
 into  submission  we  we  want  them  to  be 
 able  to  attain  their  natural  form  so 
 that  Rosemary  Tuscan  blue  that's  a 
 that's  an  upright  version  of  Rosemary 
 you  know  Rosemary  prostratus  grows  along 
 the  ground  kind  of  like  Lantana  and 
 that's  going  to  get  to  about  the  top  of 
 that  wall  then  the  Salvia  hot  lips  will 
 stay  just  below  that  and  that  could  ALS 
 so  just  use  some  pruning  where  we  just 
 prune  the  tallest  Parts  back  just  to 
 encourage  it  to  have  a  uniform  look  so 
 all  of  these  are  more  aesthetic 
 considerations  than  Horticultural 
 considerations  a  lot  of  shrubs  you  don't 
 really  need  to  prune  pruning  with  most 
 things  that  bloom  light  pruning  is  good 
 for  the  bloom  even  like  crepe  myrtle 
 trees  do  we  have  any  here  I  don't  see 
 any  there's  not  a  universal  truth  about 
 pruning  it  depends  on  the  plant  we'll  do 
 one  treatment  of  blend  which  is  a 
 combination  of  optimize  maximize  and 
 nourish  biosol  and  that  will  really  do 
 us  for  the  whole  year  because  they're 
 not  heavy  feeders  and  we're  not  trying 
 to  make  them  grow  like  crazy  we  want 
 them  to  be  healthy  and  we  want  the  soil 
 to  be  healthy  so  by  applying  those 
 products  we're  feeding  the  plant  and 
 we're  feeding  the  soil  right  at  the 
 beginning  of  Spring  then  as  you  walk  up 
 and  look  at  the  olives  there's  not  going 
 to  be  too  much  to  do  to  them  they 
 haven't  you  know  gotten  too  dense  or  or 
 anything  we  always  want  to  keep  them 
 thinned  out  like  this  but  they're  fine 
 and  then  you  can  see  they  get  a  lot  of 
 Sucker  growth  just  have  to  continually 
 cut  those  suckers  off  because  we  want  to 
 see  those  beautiful  Trunks  and  then  the 
 area  under  it  is  uh  PE  gravel  with  DG 
 and  base  Rock  underneath  so  it  doesn't 
 tend  to  get  much  in  the  way  of  weeds  but 
 it  might  get  a  weed  here  and  there  I  was 
 just  at  a  garden  where  um  the  woman  is 
 dedicating  her  whole  front  and  backyard 
 to  growing  veget  vegetables  and  growing 
 fruit  trees  and  she  has  big  open  areas 
 this  time  of  the  year  they  just  cover 
 with  weeds  and  she's  asking  me  how  do  I 
 grow  this  Garden  without  using  any 
 pesticides  or  herbicides  and  not  have 
 weeds  everywhere  and  it's  really  uh  not 
 that  easy  she  doesn't  want  to  use  a 
 chemical  pre-emergent  which  I  admire 
 chemical  pre-emergent  herbicides  aren't 
 good  for  the  soil  it's  a  good  goal  not 
 to  use  one  but  there  is  an  organic 
 pre-emergent  I  haven't  had  find  it  to  be 
 real  successful  but  it  doesn't  hurt  to 
 try  it  it's  called  corn  gluten  meal  and 
 then  I  would  combine  that  with  regular 
 mulching  but  I  mean  regular  mulching 
 you're  always  adding  a  layer  every  year 
 you're  adding  3/4  of  an  inch  or  an  inch 
 you  continue  to  mulch  and  if  you  keep  a 
 2  to  3  in  layer  of  mulch  on  there  really 
 does  great  with  weeds  over  time  after  3 
 or  4  years  of  that  you  probably  won't 
 have  a  weed  issue  and  that's  the  best 
 advice  I  can  give  in  a  garden  like  hers 
 and  the  other  thing  I  really  really 
 believe  in  is  continue  to  build  the  soil 
 we  hope  it  would  be  by  using  our 
 products  but  soil  that  has  complex  life 
 in  it  is  a  lot  less  prone  to  weeds  so 
 that  combination  of  building  the  soil 
 mulching  perhaps  trying  a  corn  gluten 
 meal  is  my  best  advice  for  preventing 
 weeds  so  in  this  area  with  the  pea 
 gravel  we  don't  have  much  of  a  weed 
 issue  and  the  olives  don't  need  a  lot  of 
 fertilization  early  in  the  spring  I 
 probably  do  one  quick  application  of 
 blend  we  can  do  it  right  over  the  top  of 
 peak  gravel  so  we'll  just  spread  it 
 around  the  olive  trees  we'll  get  more 
 rain  this  year  the  rain  will  incorporate 
 this  better  than  anything  else  I'll  just 
 throw  it  about  where  I  think  the  roots 
 are  very  lightly  we  get  a  lot  of 
 questions  about  how  does  it  get  to  the 
 soil  well  water  activates  it  and  water 
 you  know  would  be  faster  if  there  was  no 
 PE  gravel  on  there  or  no  Mulch  on  there 
 but  this  works  just  fine  it  just  works  a 
 little  slower  but  you  know  we're 
 patient  everything's  doing  so  well  the 
 sea  lavender  Oak  Leaf  hydranges  are  just 
 starting  to  sprout  we  come  into  this 
 separate  Courtyard  with  the  benches  and 
 the  water  feature  that  we  moved  from  the 
 backyard  the  owners  were  telling  me 
 they're  considering  taking  out  this  lopy 
 which  were  transplanted  from  their 
 backyard  and  using  some  large  Agave 
 which  I  think  would  look  great  we'd  use 
 a  different  variety  of  agave  than  this 
 Agave  which  is  blue  glow  and  it  has  done 
 fantastic  they  were  really  small  when  we 
 planted  them  look  at  them  now  they're 
 doing  great  and  they're  in  containers 
 they're  just  as  healthy  as  they  can  be 
 beautiful  each  pot  has  a  light  in  the 
 middle  you  know  although  agavi  aren't 
 real  heavy  feeders  what  I  would  do  in 
 these  pots  is  what  I  would  do  in  any  pot 
 over  time  you  do  leech  nutrients 
 macronutrients  and  micronutrients  when 
 you  have  pots  right  now  I  would  use 
 blend  and  I  would  spray  every  pot  with  a 
 little  bit  of  penetrate  liquid  bio 
 Tiller  that  combination  makes  it  so  you 
 never  have  to  worry  about  a  depletion  of 
 nutrients  in  the  soil  not  just  for  AI 
 but  even  if  you  were  going  to  grow  a 
 heavy  feeder  like  tomatoes  with  tomatoes 
 I'd  probably  do  twice  a  year 
 applications  of  blend  and  penetrate  but 
 with  agave  I  just  do  a  springtime 
 application  so  the  penetrate  is  this 
 product  that  we  sell  with  two  vials  one 
 that  has  food  for  the  bacteria  and  one 
 has  beneficial  bacteria  we  don't  want  to 
 mix  them  together  we  keep  them  separate 
 until  we're  ready  to  use  them  because  we 
 want  the  bacteria  to  eat  the  food  in 
 your  soil  not  in  a  container  what  I  like 
 to  do  is  put  them  in  a  big  backpack 
 sprayer  and  then  I  mix  it  with  water  it 
 doesn't  matter  how  much  water  you  could 
 mix  it  with  10  gallons  of  water  or  one 
 gallon  of  water  I  usually  take  the 
 nozzle  off  of  my  backpack  sprayer  and 
 it's  a  lot  faster  and  then  I  just  kind 
 of  wave  my  nozzle  around  and  spray  this 
 stuff  everywhere  and  you  don't  have  to 
 water  afterward  it  won't  burn  anything 
 so  I  have  some  blend  I'm  going  to  show 
 you  how  to  uh  apply  it  he  told  me  to 
 bring  my  backpack  sprayer  and  I  don't 
 want  to  sound  exactly  like  um  Joe  Biden 
 but  my  memory  is  fine  but  I  forgot  the 
 backpack  sprayer  but  uh  the  blend  I  will 
 show  you  how  I  apply  it  we  don't  need 
 any  Precision  applications  I  just  throw 
 it  on  by  hand  Oak  Leaf  hydranges  right 
 in  the  root  Zone  just  kind  of  a  handful 
 around  each  throw  it  around  the  sea 
 lavender  and  the  lower  pedum  they're 
 doing  great  so  it's  not  like  we  need 
 huge  amounts  so  we  might  want  to  be  a 
 little  more  careful  about  getting  it 
 completely  around  the  root  Zone  with  the 
 maple  because  we  don't  want  the  maple  to 
 burn  in  the  summer  we'll  do  about  I'd 
 say  about  2  to  three  cups  in  each 
 probably  two  cups  in  this  case  one  to 
 two  cups  I'd  say  and  then  we'll  spray  it 
 with  some  penetrate  which  I  forgot  my 
 backpack  sprayer  so  I'm  not  going  to 
 show  you  how  to  do  that  and  that's  uh  a 
 good  summary  uh  we're  going  to  head  to 
 the  backyard  and  see  what  that  looks 
 like  now  this  gate  might  be  open  and  you 
 can  see  this  is  the  new 
 color  no  it's  not  open  so  we  got  to  go 
 in  another 
 gate  smooth  concrete  uh  stepping  stones 
 that  go  to  an  existing  walk  so  the  back 
 lawn  it  was  a  hybrid  Bermuda  saw  and  it 
 was  overseed  with  perennial  rye  hybrid 
 Bermuda  sod  goes  dormant  in  the  winter 
 it's  just  going  to  come  out  of  the  dormy 
 now  and  it  has  this  double  row  of  palde 
 trees  kind  of  a  dwarf  variety  called 
 Desert  Museum  they'll  be  putting  on 
 leaves  and  blooms  real  soon  so  what 
 lawn's  like  is  nitrogen  in  order  to 
 Green  this  up  as  fast  as  possible  in 
 another  couple  of  weeks  just  before 
 spring  I'd  use  our  nourish  biosol  on  it 
 and  that'll  feed  it  and  feed  the  soil 
 that's  one  of  the  neat  things  about 
 nourished  biosol  it  feeds  lawn  and  it 
 feeds  soil 
 simultaneously  and  it's  the  least 
 expensive  way  to  build  life  in  soil  and 
 feed  the  lawn  at  the  same  time  so  while 
 blend  is  nice  to  use  and  if  it  had  any 
 kind  of  fungal  disease  or  drainage 
 problem  I  would  use  blend  but  without 
 those  problems  I  would  use  straight 
 nourish  biosol  and  go  ahead  and 
 broadcast  it  over  the  lawn  and  and  the 
 trees  and  uh  you  can  see  there's  some 
 annuals  if  we  want  to  retain  this  really 
 vibrantly  green  then  maybe  we'  use 
 nourished  biosol  every  8  to  10  weeks  if 
 we're  not  quite  so  much  of  a  zealot 
 about  a  deep  Green  Lawn  H  we  can  go  12 
 16  weeks  and  just  have  a  pleasant  green 
 and  then  we  get  into  the  Rose  Garden 
 which  has  been  pruned  a  rose  expert  told 
 me  if  all  you  did  was  grab  the  rose  and 
 cut  off  2/3  of  the  leaves  you're  fine 
 for  a  home  Garden  not  maybe  not  for 
 growing  prizewinning  roses  what  I  like 
 to  do  with  roses  that  I  think  performs 
 the  best  is  I  like  to  use  three  cups  of 
 blend  right  about  now  right  after 
 pruning  and  before  spring  around  the 
 root  zone  of  each  Rose  and  then  I  just 
 spray  with  penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller 
 right  over  that  blend  in  a  lot  of 
 gardens  existing  Gardens  I'll  just  do 
 that  in  the  spring  if  I  have  any  issues 
 at  all  with  the  Roses  or  you  know  pest 
 disease  or  any  kind  of  issue  at  all  then 
 I  might  do  that  again  in  the  fall  but 
 definitely  in  the  spring  the  other  thing 
 that  you  can  try  you  could  use  like  a 
 2in  thick  layer  of  earthworm  casting  so 
 you  use  the  blend  to  penetrate  and  then 
 a  2in  thick  layer  of  earthworm  castings 
 and  that  does  a  fantastic  job  of 
 preventing  all  kinds  of  pests  like  white 
 fly  and  aphid  and  things  like  that  so 
 this  is  an  area  by  the  pool  that  they're 
 going  to  have  furniture  on  the  planting 
 around  it  everything's  doing  well  it's 
 going  to  really  take  off  when  we  have 
 our  warmer  weather  everything  looks  good 
 got  some  Japanese  maples  and  a  screen 
 started  here  out  of  Evergreen  to  try  to 
 screen  that  big  house  next  to  us  all  the 
 things  I  said  previously  apply  to  the 
 same  planting  the  planting  is  really  not 
 much  different  we'll  use  a  one 
 application  of  blend  with  penetrate 
 liquid  bioer  over  the  top  and  that's  a 
 good  summary  of  how  you  treat  a  garden 
 for  pre-spring  and  now  we  go  into  spring 
 ready  to 
 Roar  we're  going  to  need  to  have  our 
 pruning  expert  come  over  here  and 
 continue  to  work  on  this  lemon  Arbor 
 which  is  really  coming  along  looking  so 
 much  better  when  we  first  took  over  here 
 it  was  just  lemon  trees  growing 
 everywhere  and  not  trained  over  the 
 arbor  but  it's  looking  much  better  now 
 for  spring  for  citrus  I  would  use  blend 
 this  soil  is  is  heavy  you  can  see  these 
 lemons  are  starting  to  sprout  we  want 
 them  to  grow  like  crazy  that  way  we  can 
 take  that  new  growth  and  get  them  to 
 grow  over  this  Arbor  and  look  like  it 
 wants  to  grow  so  I'd  use  blend  and 
 penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller  and  the  same 
 thing  on  the  Redwoods  because  we  don't 
 want  those  to  turn  brown  when  it  gets 
 hot  Japanese  maples  and  redwoods  tend  to 
 suffer  in  Fresno  summer  with  100°  heat 
 and  a  lot  of  sun  and  that's  something 
 that  should  be  done  in  the  spring  Mr 
 chip  how  you  doing  oh  and  not  that 
 Brendan's  memory  is  bad  but  he  forgot 
 the  uh  GoPro  camera  so  we  didn't  have 
 any  uh  you  know  he's  uh  what  40  years 
 younger  than  me  and  even  he  forgot 
 something  we  all  forget  sometimes  um  and 
 uh  but  my  memory  is  fine  thank  you  very 
 much  for  watching  please  subscribe 
 please  uh  have  other  of  your  friends  and 
 relatives  and  neighbors  will  watch  more 
 of  our  videos  we  need  more  views  chip  is 
 a  excited  that  we  went  over  30,000  now 
 we're  headed  to  50,000  help  us  get  us 
 there  and  if  you  want  us  to  answer  any 
 questions  let  us  know  some  product  lines 
 would  say  use  a  certain  thing  for  the 
 Citrus  use  something  else  for  the  maples 
 use  something  else  for  the  Roses  what  we 
 think  is  it's  really  a  lot  simpler  than 
 that  let's  build  life  in  the  soil  it 
 will  be  the  best  thing  possible  for 
 everything  for  your  lawn  for  your 
 annuals  for  your  trees  for  your  redwoods 
 Maples  lemons  if  you  start  to  have  a 
 problem  then  we  can  look  at  the 
 specifics  but  I  think  you'll  find  you 
 won't  have  a  problem  if  you're  building 
 life  in  your  soil

---

 please  give  us  a  warm  welcome  to 
 John  this  is  our  45th  year  in  business 
 and  that  was  first  started  as  a 
 landscape  design  and  Landscape 
 contracting  company  and  then  in  the 
 early  2000s  we  started  John  and  Bob's 
 business  which  was  borne  out  of  the 
 Practical  aspects  of  being  in  business 
 installing  Gardens  and  seeing  s  and 
 learning  pretty  quickly  that  the  most 
 important  part  of  gardening  and 
 Landscaping  is  soil  the  Vitality  the 
 productivity  the  ability  of  roses  to 
 bloom  the  ability  of  roses  in  all  plants 
 to  not  have  Pest  and  disease  is  all 
 directly  connected  to  the  soil  even 
 things  that  we  don't  know  are  connected 
 to  soil  are  connected  to  soil  every  Pest 
 and  disease  there  is  there's  a  natural 
 mechanism  in  the  soil  to  make  sure  you 
 don't  get  that  every  year  this  is  just 
 an  example  and  it's  not  directly  related 
 to  roses  but  it's  it's  the  most  powerful 
 example  that  I  run  into  every  year  and 
 that's  uh  fungus  on  cool  season  grasses 
 if  they  go  to  a  nursery  the  nursery  will 
 tell  them  spray  it  with  a  Fungicide  and 
 if  you  spray  it  with  a  fungicide  it 
 kills  the  bad  fungus  also  kills  all  the 
 good  fungi  and  by 
 killing  the  bad  fungus  and  the  good 
 fungi  you  pretty  much  guarantee  that 
 every  year  you're  going  to  have  the  same 
 problem  because  the  only  way  in  a 
 sustainable  way  to  not  get  fungus  on 
 cool  season  grass  in  the  summer  is  to 
 grow  good  fungi  that  are  way  stronger 
 than  bad  fungi  and  if  you're  killing 
 them  with  a  fungicide  you're  not  going 
 to  have  good 
 fungi  is 
 it  on  tomato 
 wors  there's  nothing  that  I  sell  that 
 you  put  on  tomato  worms  and  they  die  but 
 if  you  look  into  how  the  products  work 
 what  you'll  find  is  you  shouldn't  get 
 tomato  worms  if  you're  using  our 
 products  properly  70%  of  pests  including 
 tomato  worms  start  in  the  soil  and  if 
 you  have  complex  beneficial  soil  life  it 
 will  be  eating  those  potential  pests 
 before  they  become  pests  there's  many 
 ways  that  microbiology  and  soil  uh 
 prevents  and  defeats  pests  and  disease 
 and  that's  one  of  them  if  you  have 
 really  healthy  soil  you're  you  I'm  not 
 going  to  say  you'll  never  see  another 
 tomato  worm  but  you  probably  won't  over 
 time  did  you  want  to  I  have  a 
 question  uh  having  grown  up  in  your  neck 
 in  the 
 woods  the  soil  there  versus  the  soil 
 here  is  day 
 M  how  do  you  adjust  your  product 
 to  accommodate  the  heart  pain  in  the  C 
 Valley  as  opposed  to  the  sand  that  we 
 have  here  the  interesting  thing  is  no 
 matter  what  kind  of  soil  you  have  if 
 let's  say  you  have  heavy  clay  soil  with 
 hard  pan  what's  the  best  way  to  change 
 really  the  only  way  to  change  it  is  to 
 engage  the  soil  food  web  fill  it  full  of 
 microbiological  life  good  bacteria  good 
 fungi  good  protozoa  good  nematodes  and 
 that  will  change  everything  about  it  if 
 you  have  sandy  soil  what's  the  best  way 
 to  change  sandy  soil  Infuse  it  with 
 microbiological  life  good  bacteria  good 
 fungi  good  protozoa  you'll  notice  no 
 matter  what  kind  of  soil  you  have  the 
 answer  is  good  quality  compost  what 
 we're  attempting  to  do  here  is  have  the 
 most  beneficial  parts  of  good  quality 
 compost  in  these  boxes  and  bags  so  that 
 you  can  apply  them  to  your  home  gardens 
 the  system  is  four  products  the  first 
 one  is  soil  Optimizer  we  call  it 
 optimize  it  feeds  microbes  it  collects 
 micronutrients  so  that  plants  can  use  it 
 it  does  everything  that  organic  matter 
 does  in  your  soil  you  can  apply  it 
 topically  in  fact  all  of  these  products 
 we  would  prefer  you  apply  them  topically 
 not  mix  them  into  the  soil  organic 
 gardening  has  now  changed  thinking  of 
 this  tilling  all  the  time  which  destroys 
 these  relationships  between  microbes 
 that  we  want  to  develop  we  don't  want  to 
 be  tilling  and  mixing  the  soil  or 
 physically  disturbing  it  so  we 
 discourage  tilling  and  instead  we're 
 using  these  products  topically  and  then 
 kind  of  being  gentle  with  the  soil 
 sometimes  you  have  to  work  in  it  but 
 you're  not  uh  on  a  routine  basis  tilling 
 through  it  I  John  would  you  explain  the 
 difference  of  humic  acid  versus  say 
 Dr  Earth 
 ferz  why  Acid  versus  this  what's  the 
 difference  it's  kind  of  a  difficult 
 question  to  answer  accurately  but  let  me 
 try  there's  not  really  like  a  difference 
 between  a  doct  earth  product  and  humic 
 acid  humic  acid  is  an  ingredient  that  Dr 
 Earth  uses  you  know  Dr  Earth  has  lots 
 and  lots  of  products  you  can  buy  a  Dr 
 Earth  product  for  citrus  for  aelas  for 
 dalas  for  you  know  for  every  everything 
 you're  growing  a  different  product 
 they've  kind  of  gone  to  this  marketing 
 practice  that  a  lot  of  fertilizer 
 companies  use  which  is  specialized 
 products  and  if  you  look  in  their 
 products  many  many  of  them  have  humic 
 acid  in  them  what  we're  doing  is 
 completely  different  in  that  we're 
 saying  we  don't  really  believe  that's 
 necessary  we  we  believe  what's  necessary 
 is  healthy  soil  we  have  a  product  that's 
 almost  excl  exclusively  humic  acid 
 because  I  think  that  gives  you  a  really 
 great  value  whereas  you  can't  do  that 
 with  any  of  those  Dr  Earth  Products 
 because  there's  all  kinds  of  other 
 things  in  there  and  you  need  a  much 
 bigger  rate  I  didn't  really  answer  your 
 question  because  I  twisted  it  around  a 
 little  because  it's  a  hard  question  to 
 answer  we  have  the  best  organic 
 fertilizer  I've  ever  used  and  it's  also 
 plant-based  this  is  the  bloom  of 
 cultured  soybean  meal  and  cotton  seed 
 meal  and  the  bloom  is  called  my  sister 
 the  melium  is  cut  and  dried  so  this  is 
 dried  mycelium  that  is  not  only  really 
 good  to  feed  plants  really  good  to  feed 
 roses  but  feeds  the  soil  you  know 
 Miracle  Grow  is  the  biggest  selling 
 fertilizer  in  the  country  but  it  only 
 feeds  plants  I  would  prefer  a  fertilizer 
 like  nourished  biosol  that  feeds  plants 
 and  feeds  the  soil  at  the  same  time  and 
 the  whole  idea  of  that  is  over  time  you 
 should  be  able  to  use  less  and  less  of 
 it  because  you're  going  to  build  your 
 soil  in  a  way  that  the  soil  will  be 
 creating  its  own 
 fertilizer  yes  okay  um  I've  got  weeds  in 
 my  grass 
 uh  any  suggestion 
 on  everybody  has  weeds  in  their  grass 
 it's  a  big  problem  usually  what  people 
 ask  me  is  I  have  weeds  how  do  I  get  rid 
 of  them  now  and  rather  than  focusing  on 
 the  weeds  a  healthy  soil  and  a  healthy 
 lawn  is  the  best  way  to  get  rid  of  weeds 
 now  sometimes  it's  hard  to  get  there 
 because  you  already  have  weeds  you  know 
 that's  that  question  about  pre-emergent 
 applies  to  people  with  weeds  in  their 
 lawn  but  what  I  say  is  let's  give  it  a 
 year  let's  do  everything  right  for  a 
 year  let's  mow  it  properly  let's  water 
 it  properly  let's  feed  the  soil  and  if 
 you  still  have  a  weed  problem  but  after 
 a  year  of  doing  that  then  there  are  ways 
 to  get  rid  of  the  weeds  a  lot  of  it 
 depends  on  what  the  weeds  are  usually  I 
 ask  people  to  send  me  a  picture  of  it  a 
 pre-emergent  is  one  or  there  there  are 
 chemicals  that  I  might  recommend  but  I  I 
 think  you'll  be  amazed  by  the  results 
 with  proper  Mowing  and  regular  mowing 
 any  other  questions  yes  does  a 
 pre-emergent  hurt  the  soil  pre-emergence 
 aren't  good  for  soil  so  your  goal  should 
 be  to  not  use  them  but  if  you  have  to 
 use  them  to  solve  this  chronic  problem 
 it's  one  of  the  better  ways  to  solve  a 
 weed  problem  partic  you're  probably 
 talking  about  around  roses  but  in  lawn 
 or  anywhere 
 pre-emergent  is  something  that  I  say  you 
 use  if  you  need  to  and  then  you  counter 
 that  by  trying  to  build  your  soil  as 
 much  as  possible  use  our  products  or 
 some  B's  products  and  look  for 
 opportunities  not  to  have  to  use  it  some 
 people  just  say  well  every  year  I  use 
 Dimension  or  whatever  brand  they  use  and 
 they  don't  really  pay  attention  to 
 whether  they  even  need  it  if  you  need  a 
 pre-emergent  use  it  and  then  try  to 
 balance  that  by  by  still  building  your 
 soil  and  don't  ignore  the  needs  of  your 
 soil  and  then  see  if  you  can  get  off  of 
 the  routine  use  of  it  just  use  it  as 
 needed  but  make  sure  you  monitor  it  and 
 if  you  have  an  opportunity  stop  using  it 
 because  yeah  it's  not  good  for  soil  we 
 started  with  the  optimize  and  then  we 
 wanted  to  make  it  a  complete  system 
 optimize  doesn't  have  the  living 
 microbes  I  referred  to  but  maximize  does 
 and  liquid  uh  penetrate  liquid  bio 
 tiller  does  so  maximize  is  is  ground  up 
 Basalt  which  is  like  a  lava  deposit 
 mixed  with  a  composted  manure  and  mixed 
 with  microa  I  almost  forgot  that  word 
 because  my  daughter  told  me  when  I 
 talked  to  groups  never  say  that  word 
 again  because  it  loses  the  group  but  um 
 I  probably  Rose  gardeners  know  mic  oriza 
 the  most  powerful  beneficial  fungi  that 
 we  know  of  that  attaches  itself  to  roots 
 and  does  miraculous  things  uh  for  your 
 plants  yes  I'm  always 
 confused  um  in  the  same  aspect  of  me 
 getting  probotics  for  my  gut  some  of 
 them  are  in  the  fridge  some  are  in  a 
 pill  on  the 
 Shelf  um  it's  a  live  thing  but  it's  in  a 
 bag  and  it's  not  given  air  or  it's  got 
 little  maybe  air  holes  but  how  is  it 
 still  alive  in  the  bag  so  it's  dormant  I 
 think  is  the  best  way  to  explain  it  our 
 our  products  are  all  not  in  the 
 refrigerator  except  this  one  I  we  do  put 
 in  the  refrigerator  because  when  it  gets 
 hot  it  starts  bubbling  out  of  the 
 containers  and  when  it  bubbles  out  that 
 doesn't  mean  you  shouldn't  use  it  it's 
 no  it's  good  it's  fine  it's  alive  so 
 it's  just  if  we  keep  it  cool  it  keeps  it 
 dormant  and  the  others  it's  better  not 
 to  have  them  in  rooms  over  100°  um  it's 
 better  if  they  can  stay  you  know  50  to 
 80  degrees  um  there's  a  wide  range  but 
 even  if  they  were  to  get  very  cold  they 
 just  go  dormant  when  it  gets  warm  they 
 get  active  and  then  we  have  penetrate 
 liquid  bioer  which  is  a  liquid  product 
 as  you  can  tell  by  the  name  it  is 
 beneficial  bacteria  and  food  for  the 
 bacteria  things  like  saponin  and  liquid 
 humic  acid  so  this  is  the  food  this  is 
 the  bacteria  we  keep  them  separate 
 because  we  don't  want  them  to  get 
 together  until  they  go  into  your  soil 
 because  we  don't  want  the  bacteria  to 
 start  eating  the  food  we  want  that  to 
 happen  in  your  soil  so  you  mix  these 
 together  uh  in  water  and  you  can  spray 
 them  on  with  a  Hos  in  sprayer  or  with  a 
 backpack  sprayer  this  box  here  treats 
 4,000  square  ft  so  that's  the  basis  of 
 the  product 
 line  yeah  just  try  molasses  feed  the 
 soil  molasses  does  feed  the  soil  but 
 it's  mostly  bacteria  building  we  used  to 
 use  molasses  in  this  we  kind  of 
 based  the  formulas  of  all  these  products 
 on  the  work  of  a  soil  scientist  named  Dr 
 Elaine  Ingam  and  she  was  uh  telling  me 
 that  she  felt  there  might  be  better  ways 
 to  to  get  to  where  we  were  trying  to  go 
 rather  than  molasses  which  she  thought 
 would  make  a  two  bacteria  dominated 
 product  you  don't  want  to  favor  one  of 
 the  microb  over  the  other  particularly 
 the  lowest  form  which  is  bacteria  but 
 it's  not  like  it's  toxic  or  anything  and 
 a  lot  of  people  use  it  a  lot  of  people 
 believe  in  it  yes  somebody  raise  their 
 hand  question  I  had  is  the  liquid 
 product  that  you  have  do  you  put  it  on 
 just  on  the  ground  or  do  you  put  it  on 
 the  Roses  also  we're  marketing  it  as  to 
 go  on  the  soil  but  it's  you  can  spray  it 
 right  on  the  on  the  rose  you'll  find  a 
 lot  of  products  that  are  are  being  sold 
 as  pesticides  that  have  similar  bacteria 
 that  we  have  in  this  I  don't  know  if  you 
 uh  were  ever  lucky  enough  to  attend 
 Steve  goo  tomato  seminar  but  Steve  was  a 
 good  friend  of  mine  and  a  big  proponent 
 of  John  and  Bobs  and  he  told  me  that  he 
 had  all  these  grasshoppers  in  his 
 backyard  on  his  tomatoes  and  he  sprayed 
 them  with  penetrate  liquid  bioer  and  he 
 claims  that  they  all  went  away  and  uh 
 neighbors  maybe  and  be  back  the  only  um 
 thing  I'd  warn  you  against  is  it's  not 
 just  plain  water  it  there's  some 
 substance  to  it  so  if  you  spray  it  on 
 really  small  seedlings  you  can  uh 
 desiccate  them  because  you  can  cut  if 
 they're  really  young  you  know  you  spray 
 it  and  it's  hot  I  dilute  it  a  lot  if  I 
 spray  it  on  young  seedlings  but  over 
 mature  roses  it's  good  to  spray  it  on 
 the  canes  even  on  the 
 leaves  when  I  feed  roses  what  we  do  is 
 we  take  the  three  dry  products  soil 
 Optimizer  nourish  biosol  and 
 maximize  and  we  have  a  mixture  that  we 
 use  on  all  our  jobs  we  use  one  part  soil 
 Optimizer  two  parts  nourished  biosol 
 three  parts  maximize  so  one  two  three 
 it's  easy  to  keep  track  of  we  mix  it 
 together  and  we  call  it  blend  and  I  use 
 three  cups  of  blend  on  a  rose  uh  like 
 right  after 
 pruning  and  depending  on  the  success  of 
 the  rose  plant  and  the  kinds  of  problems 
 or  the  lack  of  problems  that  you  have  I 
 I  would  probably  do  that  same  thing  in 
 the  fall  but  at  least  the  one  time  right 
 after  pruning  and  then  I  like  to  spray 
 it  with  penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller 
 right  over  the  root  Zone  and  that  is 
 fantastic  for  Roses  many  of  you  have 
 probably  already  done  this  but  if  you 
 combine  that  with  using  say  2  in  of 
 earthworm  castings  we  don't  sell 
 earthworm  castings  but  a  good  quality 
 earthworm  castings  that  combination  of 
 blend  penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller  and 
 earthworm  castings  is  the  best  thing 
 I've  come  across  for  minimizing  Pest  and 
 disease  and  maximizing  uh  Vitality  of 
 Rose  plants  and  um  and  the 
 blooms  is  there  any  danger  of  over  usage 
 and  burning  or  over  that's  that's 
 another  yeah  that's  another  really  neat 
 thing  about  it  I  suppose  you  know  if  you 
 put  a  pile  of  something 
 uh  but  but  in  general  you  can't  over 
 apply  it  and  really  the  more  the  better 
 what  we've  tried  to  come  up  with  is 
 rates  that  give  you  good  value  what's 
 the  smallest  amount  you  can  put  on  there 
 and  get  the  best  result  the  biggest 
 result  you  could  put  it  on  once  a  month 
 if  you  wanted  to  we  on  all  of  these  bags 
 we're  recommending  only  twice  a  year  but 
 yeah  you  can't  overuse  it  and  you'll  see 
 that  frequently  with  synthetic  products 
 that  a  lot  of  Home  gardeners  damage  lawn 
 and  plants  uh  with  synthetic  fertilizer 
 which  is  pretty  easy  to  do  when  it's  hot 
 and  impossible  to  do  with  any  of  these 
 products  even  if  you  don't  water  it  you 
 could  apply  uh  nourished  biosol  and  then 
 don't  water  it  for  a  month  it  won't 
 obviously  go  to  work  because  water 
 activates  it  but  it  but  it  doesn't  burn 
 anything  I  use  your  product  but  when  I 
 turn  my  R  back  back  I  use  oil  on  it  am  I 
 killing  what  I'm  oil  fine  no  I  don't 
 think  you're  killing  anything  we  have  a 
 product  called  U  roseen  soil  Defender 
 which  is  got  a  bunch  of  Botanicals  in  it 
 and  the  whole  premise  of  our  products  is 
 similar  to  neem  oil  in  that  all  of  them 
 are  Organic  pesticides  the  idea  of  them 
 is  you  don't  have  to  be  so  worried  about 
 using  them  because  they're  good  for  the 
 soil  they're  actually  good  for  the  plant 
 they're  not  as  powerful  as  if  you  used 
 some  some  U  pesticide  or  is  if  you  use 
 um  uh  a  preemergent  you  know  it  it  kills 
 that  weed  this  is  a  little  more  subtle 
 than  its  Effectiveness  but  we  know  we're 
 building  the  soil  while  we're  fighting 
 but  what  what  are  you  uh  applying  the 
 neoil  for  what's  the  problem  you  have 
 usually  at  the  end  so  just  general 
 just  there's  no  bacteria  you  know 
 um  on  this  on  this  yeah  I  don't  I  just 
 have  a  general  knowledge  of  neoil  and  my 
 my  general  knowledge  tells  me  that's 
 okay  I  think  uh  everybody  asked  a 
 question  so  we're  probably  about  done 
 all  right  thank 
 [Applause] 
 you

---

 wow  what  a  trunk  planet  Earth  or  some 
 distant  Alien  Planet  these  trees  seem 
 impossibly  huge  here  are  the  15  largest 
 trees  on  planet  Earth  we  appreciate  the 
 work  of  top  five  that  made  this  video  so 
 the  premise  of  the  15  largest  tree 
 starting  with  the  chiat  giant  tree  in 
 Canada  it's  near  the  chiat  lake  which  is 
 in  the  Pacific  Rim  national  park  reserve 
 on  Vancouver  Island  and  dwarfs 
 everything  around 
 16,000  cubic  feet  of  wood  in  one  one 
 tree  I'm  John  Valentino  president  of 
 John  and  Bobs  I'm  here  with  chip 
 Valentino  he's  somewhere  a  there  he  is 
 he  liked  the  video  also  I  will  point  out 
 when  I  am  aware  of  inaccuracies  and 
 which  there  are  some  but  the  photography 
 is  spectacular  and  the  concept  is  really 
 spectacular  only  one  big  hole  in  it  is 
 that  even  though  it's  the  15  biggest 
 trees  in  the  world  as  we  go  through  the 
 list  I  discovered  that  the  absolute 
 biggest  tree  in  the  world  isn't  included 
 and  we'll  we'll  get  to  that  in  a  second 
 number  14  Wisteria  so  Wisteria  this  is 
 fantastic  amazing  uh  example  that  points 
 out  uh  one  thing  I  always  point  out  when 
 we  use  Wister  in  a  garden  but  I  didn't 
 realize  they  could  get  to  this  big  uh 
 the  ones  referenced  here  there's  one 
 covering  a  half  an  acre  and  uh  what  is 
 very  notorious  of  Wisteria  is  the 
 tremendous  size  and  weight  of  the 
 supporting  branches  so  it's  a  mistake  to 
 put  one  in  your  garden  without  really 
 heavy  support  really  good  strong  support 
 like  we  did  a  garden  we  showed  you  with 
 a  with  a  metal  Arbor  um  these  photos  are 
 spectacular  and  there  are  a  lot  of 
 different  cultivar  of  Wisteria  available 
 now  um  look  at  that  man  number  13  Dorner 
 fur  the  Dorner  fur  in  cous  County  forest 
 Oregon  is  is  a  coastal  Douglas  fur  and 
 at  just  over  327  ft  tall  it's  the 
 tallest  known  non-  redwood  tree  in  the 
 world  in  some  cases  they  name  the  actual 
 Tree  in  other  cases  they  name  the  name 
 of  the  tree  in  other  words  something 
 they  happen  to  call  the  tree  rather  than 
 the  species  of  the  tree  um  this  is  a 
 Douglas  fur  and  it's  in  Oregon  and  um  it 
 has  a  trunk  with  a  11  1/2t  diameter 
 which  is  spectacular  the  Douglas  is  an 
 amazing  tree  visually  really  too  big  for 
 most  of  our  Gardens  but  if  you  happen  to 
 have  the  opportunity  to  stand  under  one 
 you  will  get  a  special  feeling  they  have 
 a  look  unlike  almost  any  other  Conifer 
 really  kind  of  a  magical  tree  Douglas 
 fur  and  this  Dorner  fur  is  maybe  the 
 most  famous  of  these  of  this  magical 
 species  of  um  of  Conifer  number  12  legoa 
 Christmas  tree  while  we  all  have 
 different  trees  and  shrubs  in  our 
 backyards  there's  one  type  that  unites 
 Millions  around  the  world  each  year  the 
 Christmas  tree  so  the  whole  idea  the  the 
 charm  I  see  of  this  video  is  that  we  see 
 all  these  amazing  trees  such  as  this 
 Christmas  tree  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  and  it 
 reminds  us  of  special  qualities  that 
 we're  always  trying  to  get  into  our  own 
 individual  Living  Spaces  and  you  can 
 accomplish  that  by  selecting  the  right 
 tree  in  the  right  place 
 and  these  are  examples  that  can  Inspire 
 us  to  pick  the  right  tree  in  the  right 
 place  most  of  these  would  be  the  wrong 
 tree  uh  in  in  individual  Gardens  but  can 
 remind  us  of  the  amazing  qualities  of 
 trees  number  11 
 Centurion  Centurion  which  is  a 
 eucalyptus  Regan  is  the  tallest  tree  in 
 Australia  it's  in  southern  Tasmania  and 
 at  more  than  327  ft  tall  it's  also  the 
 largest  flowering  plant  and  hardwood 
 tree  in  the  world  what  I  found  as  I 
 watched  the  video  and  I  looked  into  some 
 of  the  examples  they  give  is  some  of  the 
 statistics  they  give  are  inaccurate  I'll 
 Point  some  out  as  we  get  uh  Farther 
 Along  tan  mahuta  that's  a  famous  one 
 that's  supposed  to  have  spiritual 
 qualities 
 people  cry  when  they  stand  in  front  of 
 it  it's  named  after  the  Maori  Forest  God 
 and  is  the  largest  known  korri  tree  in 
 the  world  it's  just  under  169  ft  tall 
 with  a  girth  of  62  ft  and  people  travel 
 from  far  and  wide  to  get  their  chance  to 
 see  it  for  themselves  I  cried  when  uh 
 arodor  Cedar  dropped  a  branch  on  our  car 
 and  crushed  it  uh  so  that  and  if  I  would 
 have  been  in  the  car  I'm  sure  I  wouldn't 
 have  I  would  have  been  crying  also  from 
 an  emotional  standpoint  just  because  of 
 the  Grandeur  of  the  tree  I  haven't  had 
 that  emotion  but  some  of  them  are  pretty 
 powerful  in  their  ability  to  emote 
 feelings  number  nine  Nina  log  Mina  ninaa 
 logal  Mina  is  the  highest  known 
 Tasmanian  Blue  Gum  Tree  in  the  world  at 
 298  ft  so  a  number  of  these  spectacular 
 um  trees  are  eucalyptus  and  they  get 
 tall  quickly  which  is  pretty  common  with 
 eucalyptus  and  some  of  these  are  amazing 
 eucalyptus  but  most  eucalyptus  aren't 
 good  for  small  gardens  so  again  not  that 
 good  in  our  cities  not  that  good  in  our 
 homes  um  but  in  nature  they're 
 spectacular  species  is  however  highly 
 sought  after  because  its  wood  is  ideal 
 for  the  use  in  Pulp  and  the 
 eucalypticola  of  Evergreen  Conifer 
 that's  endemic  to  Bhutan  so  I  don't  have 
 much  to  say  about  the  Bhutan  Cyprus 
 although  it  is  a  very  familiar  looking 
 they've  been  known  to  grow  up  to  three 
 times  this  height  there's  currently  a 
 claim  that  one  that's  growing  in  the 
 Himalayas  is  as  tall  as  312  ft  but  it 
 location  is  secret  and  this  is  yet  to  be 
 confirmed  number  seven  Sur  viim  Ser  VI 
 which  grows  in  the  ever  Cree  Forest 
 Reserve  in  Tasmania  is  the  world's 
 tallest  manag  gum  tree  and  is  part  of  a 
 group  of  similarly  tall  trees  in  the 
 region  that  are  collectively  known  as 
 the  white  Knights  at  just  under  300  ft 
 high  it's  the  tallest  of  all  of  them  but 
 the  existence  of  the  entire  group  is  a 
 surprise  because  before  their  Discovery 
 the  species  was  only  regarded  as  a 
 comparatively  small  one  number  six 
 Juggernaut  so  Juggernaut  is  an  example 
 of  a  tree  that  that's  the  name  of  the 
 tree  it's  actually  a  type  of  Coast 
 Redwood  in  California  which  is  the  state 
 tree  of  California  tallest  living  thing 
 on  Earth  although  they  misstated  here  in 
 the  video  it  says  it's  460  ft  tall  and  I 
 believe  this  particular  tree  is  more 
 like  309  ft  tall 
 significantly  less  than  460  ft  but  still 
 spectacular  these  all  occur  in  parts  of 
 California  along  the  coast  from  Santa 
 Cruz  northward  and  again  some  of  these 
 are  kept  secret  because  they're  they're 
 valuable  but  uh  Juggernaut  is  not  460  ft 
 tall  but  it's  a  spectacular  tree  number 
 five  yellow 
 Moran  in  the  Malaysian  state  of  saah  on 
 the  island  of  Borneo  researchers  have 
 continuously  found  larger  and  larger 
 trees  during  surveys  of  dense  forests  by 
 scanning  techniques  they  focus  on  a 
 specific  species  of  tree  called  the 
 yellow  Moran  and  in  recent  years  the 
 record  for  the  tallest  has  jumped  from 
 288  ft  to  38.7  ft  in  2016  and  then  in 
 2019  19  they  found  a  new  specimen  that's 
 a  whopping 
 330.000  ft  tall  number  four  Tennessee 
 Treehouse  so  this  uh  treehouse  in 
 Tennessee  is  amazing  although  it  met  a 
 sad  fate  built  in  a  white  oak  and  then 
 supported  by  other  trees  actually  uh 
 ended  up  being  like  10,000  square  ft  of 
 Treehouse  kind  of  amazing  they  ended  up 
 being  a  venue  for  weddings  and  such 
 built  by  horse  Burgess  look  at  it  it's 
 amazing  and  a  white  oak  is  the  is  the 
 home  for  it  is  really  something  uh  ended 
 up  U  being  closed  because  as  you  might 
 imagine  of  Permitting  and  safety  issues 
 but  for  a  while  it  was  U  used  heavily 
 that's  amazing  the  cost  and  in  October 
 of  2019  a  fire  raged  through  it  and 
 burned  it  to  a  crisp  within  15  minutes 
 fire  at  the  famous  Minister's  Tree  House 
 off  Beehive  Lane  in  Crossville  I 
 wouldn't  Endeavor  to  build  a  treehouse 
 like  that  it  seems  uh  not  a  smart  thing 
 to  do  but  I  was  impressed  with  that  one 
 number  three  rainbow 
 eucalyptus  so  number  three  is  the  most 
 spectacular  in  the  photographs  just 
 amazing  and  the  trunk  called  the  rainbow 
 eucalyptus  um  native  to  the  Philippines 
 and  some  other  islands  around  the 
 Philippines  they  have  been  exported  out 
 and  they  grow  in  Hawaii  and  uh  really 
 amazing  like  all  eucalyptus  look  at  that 
 man  that  is  just  beautiful  looks  like  a 
 watercolor  painting  uh  just  like  all 
 eucalyptus  they  grow  fast  usually  most 
 eucalyptus  are  pretty  messy  and  also 
 might  drop  a  lot  of  stuff  so  not  uh 
 ideal  for  our  environments  that  we're 
 going  to  live  in  but  excellent  in 
 nature  uh  that  rainbow  eucalyptus  is  one 
 of  my  favorites  and  I  hadn't  heard  of  it 
 there  I'm  aware  of  many  many  Vari  ities 
 of  eucalyptus  with  interesting  flowers 
 and  leaves  um  but  I  hadn't  seen  that 
 trunk  of  the  rainbow 
 eucalyptus  number  two 
 sua  so  the 
 suera  the  highest  in  the  rainforest  so 
 it's  Unique  because  it  um  manages  to  get 
 250  ft  tall  or  so  in  an  area  that  has 
 mostly  understory  type 
 plants 
 whoa  chip  likes  that 
 tree  oh  yeah  he's  a  hey  Mr  chip  number 
 one 
 Hyperion  the  giant  redwoods  that  grow  in 
 California  are  by  some  degree  the 
 tallest  trees  in  the  world  there  are  a 
 large  number  of  these  Giants  throughout 
 the  state  but  one  that  eclipses  the  rest 
 is  known  as  Hyperion  so  when  we  get  to 
 number  one  I'm  all  hyped  to  hear  about 
 the  Giant  Sequoia  which  is  the  biggest 
 tree  in  the  world  and  we  in  instead  they 
 introduce  us  to  one  called  Hyperion 
 which  is  again  our  state  tree  of 
 California  it's  a  coast  um  Redwood  it  is 
 not  the  biggest  tree  in  the  world  it's 
 one  of  the  tallest  in  the  world  but 
 biggest  would  infer  Mass  you  know  so 
 this  one  is  kept  a  secret  as  many  of 
 them  are  Inland  in  the  Sierra  Nevadas 
 are  is  the  a  forest  of  the  biggest  trees 
 in  the  world  which  is  the  Giant  Sequoia 
 Sequoia  den  gigantum  no  mention  of  it 
 here  trees  like  named  like  General 
 Sherman  and  General  Grant  and  um  those 
 are  among  the  biggest  and  with  countless 
 other  trees  vying  for  its  Crown  it's 
 only  a  matter  of  time  until  another 
 giant  is  found  that'll  take  the 
 title  we're  left  really  with  an 
 inaccurate  Title  Here  the  15  biggest 
 trees  in  the  world  and  we  leave  out  the 
 absolute  biggest  which  is  uh  Giant 
 Sequoia  and  in  California  we  have  the 
 rare  opportunity  to  see  the  tallest 
 living  thing  on  Earth  which  they  give  us 
 in  this  video  two  examples  Hyperion  and 
 Juggernaut  are  the  names  that  have  been 
 given  those  trees  both  Coast  redwoods 
 the  biggest  living  thing  on  Earth  and 
 that  would  be  like  General  Sherman 
 General  Grant  in  the  sequa  National  Park 
 not  too  far  from  where  we  are  actually 
 here  in  Fresno  and  then  the  other  thing 
 that's  remarkable  you  know  in  this  video 
 they  talk  about  these  really  big  trees 
 and  reference  their  amazing  age  for 
 instance  Hyperion  is  um  estimated  at 
 being  600  to  800  years  old  well  here  in 
 California  we  happen  to  have  the  oldest 
 living  thing  on  Earth  definitely  the 
 oldest  tree  on  earth  it's  named 
 Methuselah  it  is  estimated  at  just  under 
 5,000  years  old  and  that's  on  the 
 Eastern  side  of  the  SE  Nevadas  the 
 bristle  cone  Pine  that  is  absolutely 
 incredible  when  you  think  about  5,000 
 years  old  what  those  trees  have  been 
 through  and  in  a  very  harsh  climate  so 
 there's  no  way  bristle  cone  Pines  would 
 make  this  list  of  the  biggest  trees  in 
 the  world  because  the  climates  are  so 
 harsh  that  the  trees  are  small  and  kind 
 of  deformed  and  beaten  down  by  nature 
 and  uh  so  they're  not  big  um  but  they're 
 amazing  in  in  their  5,000  years  old  so 
 here  in  California  we've  got  the  oldest 
 we've  got  the  tallest  we've  got  the 
 biggest  I  just  think  that's  a  massive 
 oversight  to  not  include  the  giant  sequa 
 the  biggest  living  thing  on  Earth  that's 
 the  one  that  we  build  roads  through  you 
 know  so  you  can  drive  your  car  through 
 the  middle  of  the  tree  but  all  in  all 
 these  trees  are  amazing  the  photography 
 is  amazing  you  watch  this  and  you  get  a 
 sense  of  the  Wonder  and  the  what  trees 
 are  capable  of  and  inspiring  us  I  always 
 say  they  make  places  special  and  when 
 you  think  about  where  these  OCC  they  all 
 create  different  feelings  and  and  and 
 make  those  places  special  and  that's  the 
 type  of  thing  that  we  try  to  do  as  we 
 use  trees  in  creating  spaces  that  we're 
 going  to  live  our  everyday  lives  in 
 we're  trying  to  make  them  special  this 
 is  a  different  video  for  us  let  us  know 
 if  you  think  there's  any  Merit  to  it  and 
 if  so  maybe  you  have  a  video  you  want  me 
 to  watch  and  comment  on  let  us  know

---

 we're  at  a  really  interesting  uh  little 
 problem  job  that  I've  run  into  a  lot  and 
 it  involves  drainage  drainage  systems 
 that  don't  work  drainage  systems  that 
 are  plugged  up  people  are  always  asking 
 me  how  to  fix  them  this  is  something  you 
 can  do  yourself  and  this  is  an  exciting 
 video  it  was  between  drainage  and 
 skydiving  and  we  thought  the  drainage 
 one  would  be  a  lot  more 
 interesting  as  a  do-it-yourself  project 
 it's  a  lot  of  work  but  very  doable  and 
 maybe  a  project  that  you  get  some  young 
 hardworking  people  to  help  you  with  and 
 get  the  right  tools  and  uh  you  could  do 
 it  yourself  a  common  occurrence  is  to 
 have  a  low  spot  in  your  yard  and  no  good 
 way  to  get  water  out  of  and  so  uh  that's 
 the  case  here  you  can  see  the  spot  where 
 water  is  standing  about  35  years  ago 
 when  the  house  was  built  they  decided  to 
 get  that  standing  water  out  by  putting 
 in  a  drain  line  that  starts  right  here 
 and  it  goes  about  225  ft  to  the  street 
 over  time  the  system  became  less 
 effective  I  suggested  to  try  a  couple  of 
 things  first  which  are  a  lot  less 
 expensive  than  what  we  ended  up  having 
 to  do  so  just  like  a  plumber  would  clean 
 out  your  pipes  that  go  from  your  house 
 say  if  your  kitchen  sink  is  clogged  or 
 your  to  toilet  is  clogged  that  same  kind 
 of  equipment  can  be  used  on  drainage 
 pipes  and  they  tried  that  without 
 success  he  also  tried  what  they 
 described  as  a  hydr  flush  I  have  heard 
 that  term  thrown  around  a  lot  and  this 
 owner  told  me  they  offered  the  hydro 
 flush  which  I  think  is  quite  expensive 
 and  I'm  sure  it  involves  a  large  amount 
 of  water  but  I  don't  know  exactly  what 
 the  hydro  flesh  consists  of  other  than 
 they  tried  it  here  and  it  didn't  work 
 you  can  see  what  we  ended  up  with  here 
 is  um  Roots  inside  the  pipe  this  one  is 
 uh  a  little  bit  of  a 
 problem  so  you  can  see  like  on  this  one 
 the  root  is 
 completely  inside  it  it  makes  it  so  so 
 the  pipe  isn't  even  round  anymore  the 
 root  went  inside  it  we  can't  even  get  it 
 out  and  all  around  it  and  coming  out  the 
 hole  here  and  U  this  is  just  a  complete 
 clog  no  way  to  clean  this  or  use  a  rotor 
 router  or  anything  a  type  of  pipe  was 
 used  that  has  holes  in  it  on  purpose  not 
 holes  that  developed  over  time  the 
 thinking  is  as  it  goes  on  its  way  out  to 
 the  street  and  the  gutter  the  water  can 
 go  back  down  into  the  soil  and  you  don't 
 dump  it  all  out  into  the  gutter  the 
 problem  with  that  is  those  holes  are 
 prime  spots  for  trees  or  large  shrubs  or 
 aggressive  ground  cover  to  grow  into 
 those  with  the  roots  and  then  the  roots 
 can  plug  them  up  so  step  one  is  you  take 
 out  the  old  pipe  and  dig  the  trench  that 
 that's  done  all  at  the  same  time  and  as 
 you're  digging  the  trench  you  have  to 
 cut  Roots  because  there  there  was  a  lot 
 of  them  in  the  way  this  drainage  pipe 
 was  installed  right  along  uh  the  edge  of 
 the  driveway  and  since  the  driveway 
 slopes  down  it's  really  a  fairly  simple 
 installation  you  just  keep  it  at  the 
 same  distance  below  the  driveway  and  it 
 flows  all  the  way  to  the  street  we 
 encountered  lots  of  roots  that  made  this 
 a  very  difficult  job  and  very  timec 
 consuming  we  Ed  this  Sharpshooter  to  cut 
 through  these  roots  and  try  to  make  the 
 cut  as  clean  as  possible  when  you're 
 cutting  Roots  like  on  a  mature  tree  like 
 this  that  has  roots  all  around  it  we're 
 confident  that  the  tree  can  withstand 
 losing  surface  Roots  like  this  if  we 
 went  completely  around  the  tree  and  cut 
 the  surface  Roots  we  would  probably 
 create  a  problem  for  the  health  of  the 
 tree  I'm  not  concerned  about  stability 
 it's  still  very  stable  tree  it  actually 
 will  help  down  the  road  in  preserving 
 this  driveway  from  being  damaged  then 
 you  put  in  the  new  pipe  we  ended  up 
 having  to  dig  all  this  system  you  know 
 this  old  drainage  system  out  and  replace 
 it  with  brand  new  pipe  what  we're  going 
 to  use 
 instead  is  this  PVC  drainage  pipe  this 
 is  3  in  comes  in  10t  lengths  it  has  a  a 
 coupling  at  each  end  and  very  easy  to 
 install  it's  not  as  flexible  as  pipe 
 like  this  um  but  we  you  can  bend  it 
 still  we  think  we're  going  to  be  able  to 
 bend  it  on  this  without  putting  in  any 
 fittings  with  solid  pipe  like  this  you 
 can  prevent  the  entrance  of  roots  the 
 only  problem  we've  had  when  we've  used 
 this  is  if  we  put  a  lot  of  inlets  so  an 
 inlet  is  the  place  the  water  goes  in 
 sometimes  the  root  will  go  in  the  inlet 
 and  uh  so  you  have  to  watch  out  for  that 
 the  other  nice  thing  about  this  is  it's 
 smooth  on  the  inside  and  it's  continuous 
 and  so  Plumbing  equip 
 can  easily  go  in  there  and  clean  these 
 out  the  ones  that  are  corrugated  the 
 equipment  sometimes  gets  caught  and  puts 
 holes  in  it  and  it's  a  problem  step 
 three  is  you  test  the  sprinklers  it's 
 not  unlikely  that  you  might  have  damaged 
 some  sprinklers  in  the  course  of  this 
 very  hard  digging  step  four  is  you  test 
 the  drain  line  make  sure  it's  working 
 and  you  don't  have  any  spots  where  it's 
 not  draining  prop  properly  so  you  would 
 start  at  the  inlet  and  use  a  hose  and 
 just  fill  it  with  water  and  make  sure 
 you  have  a  good  drainage  from  there  and 
 step  five  is  you  back  fill  and  put  all 
 the  dirt  back  and  clean  everything  up 
 this  is  a  subject  that  comes  up  all  the 
 time  so  I  hope  it's  helpful  and  I  think 
 it  serves  to  educate  on  a  topic  that  is 
 just  taken  for  granted  but  is  frequently 
 a  big  problem  when  your  drainage  system 
 stops  working  you  have  flood 
 and  that's  bad  and  that's  depressing  so 
 this  is  I  hope  a  really  helpful  video 
 you  can  let  us  know  if  you  thought  it 
 was  and  if  not  uh  let  us  know  how  we  can 
 make  it  more  helpful

---

 chip  and  I  are  here  at  the  John  and  Bob 
 shop  we're  going  to  talk  about  all  the 
 good  things  maybe  a  couple  of  bad  things 
 that  happened  in  2023  and  look  forward 
 to  2024  come  along  with  us  Chip's  going 
 to  film  part  of  it  Brandon's  going  to 
 film  part  of  it  again  you'll  have  the 
 opportunity  to  judge  who's  the  better 
 photographer  Brendan  or  chip  I'm  John 
 Valentino  with  John  and  Bobs  and  we  also 
 have  two  other  companies  called  truel 
 and  Valentino  and  Sierra  Madre  nursery 
 and  Chip  Valentino  is  here  he  helps  me 
 with  all  three  of  those  companies  many 
 people  say  he's  the  brains  of  the 
 operation  which  um  I  can't  argue 
 with  you  know  usually  you  gauge  years  by 
 revenue  generated  and  it  wasn't  one  of 
 our  better  years  it  was  fine  but  uh  we 
 had  much  busier  years  oddly  uh  the 
 pandemic  was  an  extremely  busy  time  for 
 the  whole  industry  coming  off  of  those 
 years  hasn't  been  as  busy  John  and  Bobs 
 has  been  on  a  trajectory  thanks  to  our 
 customers  where  uh  we  do  a  little  more 
 each  Year  and  that  was  the  case  in  2023 
 we  did  a  little  more  than  22  and  so  for 
 John  and  Bob's  uh  23  was  our  best  year 
 ever  there's  Mandarin  oranges  right  next 
 to  us  which  are  being  aali  on  a  fence  uh 
 that's  Satsuma  oari  Satsuma  they're  easy 
 to  peel  generally  don't  have  seeds 
 that's  kind  of  my  definition  of  a  good 
 Tangerine  or  mandarin  orange  I  generally 
 don't  have  favorite  plants  but  one  that 
 I'm  really  intrigued  by  I'm  going  to  uh 
 use  on  my  house  which  I  discovered  while 
 we  were  doing  the  tour  of  Green  Hills 
 Nursery  was  the  dwarf  gko  and  then  it 
 allowed  me  to  hearken  back  to  a  video 
 that  a  friend  sent  me  from  the  Dallas 
 Botanical  Garden  of  a  goo  hedge 
 surprisingly  lovely  it  sound  it  sounded 
 terrible  when  I  first  heard  about  it  I 
 thought  why  would  you  want  to  make  a 
 Ginko  into  a  hedge  but  uh  it's  it's 
 really  neat  that  whole  world  of  dwarf 
 ginkos  is  amazing  to  me  so  in  my  new 
 house  I'm  going  to  use  some  dwarf  ginkos 
 that  get  about  8  to  10  feet  tall  let's 
 go 
 chip  you  know  there's  a  lot  of  small 
 gardens  these  days  that  don't  have  room 
 for  Big  Trees  so  what  you  can  do  is  you 
 can  take  a  plant  that's  really  not  very 
 big  and  turn  it  into  a  small  patio  tree 
 that's  what's  being  grown  here  even 
 though  they're  very  small  these  are 
 little  Oli  which  normally  are  grown  as 
 shrubs  but  it's  trained  into  a  tree  and 
 you  can  do  that 
 with  all  kinds  of  shrubs  you  know  phenia 
 and  xylosma  and  you  can  even  do  it  with 
 lantana  and  gardinas  and  anything  really 
 so  a  lot  of  our  work  is  for  cities  or 
 hospitals  we  did  two  jobs  for  cities 
 that  were  interesting  and  unique  one  was 
 a  little  Tot  Lot  that  was  just  a  lawn  uh 
 in  a  neighborhood  then  they  hired  us  to 
 put  in  some  play  equipment  and  some 
 walks  change  the  irrigation  to  drip  and 
 so  it's  now  a  little  Tot  Lot  playground 
 and  then  the  other  one  was  really  pretty 
 interesting  not  necessarily  tremendously 
 attractive  but  interesting  in  the  way  it 
 was  designed  uh  to  meet  a  specific 
 problem  the  middle  of  this  roundabout 
 had  already  been  landscaped  twice  over 
 the  last  5  years  or  so  and  every  time  it 
 got  trampled  by  people  walking  through 
 it  and  a  lot  of  homeless  people  would 
 congregate  there  and  move  in  and  out  and 
 just  um  completely  brutalized  the 
 landscape  to  where  most  of  the  plants 
 would  be  dead  most  of  the  time  so  they 
 wanted  to  landscape  it  a  third  time  but 
 come  up  with  something  that  would  be 
 water  efficient  and  uh  wouldn't  be 
 trampled  so  they  came  up  with  this 
 design  and  they  hired  us  to  install  it 
 on  the  outside  we  used  like  a  crush 
 Granite  really  big  Crush  granite  and  set 
 that  to  make  it  look  like  you  don't  want 
 to  go  in  there  and  it's  hard  to  walk  on 
 they  also  had  problems  with  people 
 driving  it  across  it  so  there's  Boulders 
 now  there's  a  mound  that's  to  stop  cars 
 while  we  were  doing  the  job  a  car  went 
 right  across  it  and  wiped  out  our  cement 
 retaining  walls  that  we  had  just  built 
 um  but  we  hadn't  put  in  the  boulders  yet 
 and  we  hadn't  put  the  Mounds  in  yet  and 
 then  uh  a  new  drip  system  with  very  very 
 water  efficient  plants  I  mean  after  a 
 couple  of  years  you  might  even  be  able 
 to  turn  off  the  irrigation  system  on  the 
 City  of  Fresno  job  and  the  City  of 
 iselia  job  that's  completely  done  with 
 maximize  optimize  nourish  biosol  and 
 penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller  as  the  soil 
 amendments  so  those  two  jobs  were 
 interesting  those  were  probably  the 
 biggest  jobs  that  we  did  this  year  and 
 then  we  filled  in  with  a  lot  of  smaller 
 stuff  some  residential  and  some 
 commercial  this  is  15g  espol  star 
 jasmine  wow  where's  he 
 going  so  this  is  really  a  very  common 
 plant  it's  Nandina  domestica  and  some 
 cult  our  that  I'm  not  sure  which  one  it 
 is  they  get  great  color  in  the  in  the 
 fall  and  the  winter  and  so  these  are 
 really  colored 
 nicely  one  that  I  really  liked  was  the 
 one  with  all  of  the  olive  trees  that  the 
 owner  said  they  wanted  to  copy  the  cover 
 of  that  Restoration  Hardware  and  that 
 that's  really  a  neat  look  with  a 
 immediate  impact  because  we  used  the 
 mature  olives  also  it's  water  conserving 
 and  low  maintenance  easy  to  care  for 
 really  a  nice  look  and  a  huge 
 improvement  over  what  they  had  I  also 
 like  the  one  that  we  showed  the  small 
 yard  that  we  had  done  about  um  six  or 
 seven  years  ago  and  we  don't  know  why 
 maybe  you  can  help  us  figure  out  why  but 
 that  was  our  most  watched  uh  video  for 
 the  year  why  oh  why  oh  why  why  why  did 
 did  everyone  watch  that  one  we  don't 
 know  help  us  out  let's  figure  it  out  and 
 we'll  make  some  more  like  that  John  and 
 Bobs  uh  has  done  great  in  terms  of  the 
 YouTube  channel  has  added  about  another 
 10  11,000  um  subscribers  but  we  need 
 more  so  please  subscribe  if  you're  not 
 one  and  we  need  more  viewers  and  we'll 
 be  doing  different  things  in  2024  to  try 
 to  build  that  even  bigger  possibly  with 
 more  postings  more  information  and  more 
 [Music] 
 demonstrations  is  this  the  one 
 that  I  think  that's  the  one  but  it's 
 closed 
 [Music] 
 up 
 no  see  you  ask  the  hard  questions  uh 
 Brandon  I  gave  you  some  time  to  warm  up 
 the  best  part  of 
 2023  uh  was  being  able  to  go  to  work 
 every  day  I  enjoy  it  I  don't  uh  drag 
 myself  out  of  bed  but  I  jump  out  of  bed 
 I'm  eager  pretty  much  almost  for  every 
 day  and  enjoy  uh  most  parts  of  it  I'm 
 healthy  and  I'm  working  every  day  and 
 that's  the  best  part  nothing  dramatic 
 but  uh  I'm  pleased  with  it  look  who's 
 coming  up  behind  oh  look  at 
 chip  and  Chip  was  right  there  with  me  he 
 didn't  miss  a  day  of  work 
 either  and  he's  filming  today  look  at 
 that  so  we  have  sheep  on  a  couple  of 
 acres  some  um  Queensland  puppies  to  make 
 sure  the  coyotes  don't  eat  the  sheep  and 
 they  do  a  great  job  oh  that's  a  rescue 
 dog  that's  uh  a  couple  of  my  guys 
 rescued  that  dog  and  they  think  they 
 found  a  home  for  it  the  Queensland  live 
 here  and  then  they  let  them  out  with  the 
 Sheep  I  don't  have  a  lot  to  say  um  you 
 know  there's  an  everyday  challenge  when 
 it's  important  when  it's  a  priority  to 
 make  sure  that  we  take  care  of  our 
 employees  properly  and  we  take  care  of 
 our  suppliers  properly  you  know  we  pay 
 them  promptly  and  uh  work  with  them 
 properly  and  we  take  care  of  our 
 customers 
 properly  that's  those  things  are 
 important  to  us  and  so  as  you  might 
 imagine  they  all  present  their 
 challenges  kind  of  an  everyday  challenge 
 which  is  just  a  part  of  the  business  and 
 not  necessarily  uh  a  challenge  that  is 
 not  expected  or  is  drudgery  in  any  way 
 but  uh  you  know  can  be  uh  difficult  now 
 and  then  there  there  wasn't  one  hardship 
 during  the  year  that  stood  out  as  um 
 being  something  we  had  to 
 overcome 
 [Music] 
 hey  I  didn't  think  there'd  be  anyone 
 left  not  going  join  the  party  one  one 
 chip  you  want  to  join  the  party  come 
 on  too  many  carnas  so  we're  in  our  shop 
 with  some  of  our  employees  and 
 chip 
 Sal  all  right  chip  can 
 uh  film  you  filming 
 [Laughter] 
 us  it's  we  started  we  started  at  12  noon 
 oh  really 
 yeah  okay  we're  at  Chip's  Park  every 
 Saturday  chip  comes  here  with  a  couple 
 of  his  friends  and  runs  220  ft  well  chip 
 is  supposed  to  run  but  sometimes  he  just 
 waits  for  treats  our  Channel  and  our 
 website  is  really  about  soil  and  about 
 soil-based  gardening  which  is  a 
 sustainable  form  of  gardening  and  and 
 the  amazing  thing  about  it  is  even 
 though  it's  organic  and  some  people  tend 
 to  think  organic  is  more  troubl  and  more 
 expensive  in  the  case  of  gardening  and 
 Landscaping  I  think  it's  less  troubled 
 more  productive  and  really  uh  a  more 
 userfriendly  way  to  do  it  because  you're 
 letting  your  soil  solve  all  the 
 gardening  problems  and  feed  all  your 
 plant  plants  uh  better  than  what  any 
 chemical  fertilizer  could  feed  them  so 
 it's  safe  for  chip  and  his  friends  and 
 for  all  my  grandkids  and  your  kids  and 
 uh  it's  the  way  we  should  be  uh  treating 
 our  outdoor  environments  especially  the 
 ones  we  live  in  every  day  so  leave  a 
 comment  for  us  telling  us  what  videos 
 you'd  like  to  see  in  2024  2024  we  plan 
 on  kind  of  charging  into  it  even  though 
 January  and  February  are  usually  slower 
 months  in  terms  of  sales  we  hope  to  make 
 them  very  busy  months  in  terms  of 
 planning  and  implementing  we've  got  some 
 interesting  things  planned  that  I'm 
 eager  to  see  have  you  see  them  and  see 
 how  all  of  our  viewers  respond  to  them 
 so  we're  excited  about 
 2024  and  hope  uh  you  will  come  along 
 with  us  and  ask  all  your  friends  to  join 
 in

---

 lots  of  examples  out  there  of  what  not 
 to  do  for  frost  protection  for  instance 
 plastic  is  bad  in  this  video  we're  going 
 to  show  you  how  to  do  it  properly  so 
 what  better  way  to  show  you  how  to  keep 
 plants  warm  than  in  a  greenhouse  because 
 what  we  want  to  do  is  create  the 
 Greenhouse  Effect  and  we  can  definitely 
 do  that  in  a  greenhouse  that's  where  we 
 are  here  today  in  Fresno  California  I'm 
 John  Valentino  president  of  John  and 
 Bobs  I'm  a  landscape  architect  a 
 landscape  contractor  and  I'm  here  with 
 chip  Valentino  he's  looking  around  this 
 little  Greenhouse  which  we  have  filled 
 with  plants  that  are  either  sensitive  to 
 frost  or  will  just  grow  better  without 
 being  subject  to  frost  these  little  oi 
 dwarf  Olive  plants  are  an  example  we 
 moved  them  into  here  just  two  weeks  ago 
 and  we'll  show  you  a  difference  between 
 the  ones  that  remain  outside  where  our 
 lows  have  been  uh  like  40  or  a  little 
 less  than  40  and  our  Highs  are  been  just 
 a  little  less  than  60  in  those 
 temperatures  they  pretty  much  sto 
 growing  but  in  the  greenhouse  they 
 continue  to  grow  we  do  have  cold 
 temperatures  here  in  Fresno  gets  down  to 
 probably  mid  20s  not  as  cold  as  many  of 
 you  in  other  parts  of  the  country  but 
 these  principles  apply 
 universally  this  idea  of  a  greenhouse 
 effect  is  really  what  you  want  to  try  to 
 create  when  you're  protecting  plants  the 
 greenhouse  effect  is  to  trap  heat  that's 
 rising  and  create  areas  underneath  some 
 type  of  overhead  structures  so  that  we 
 raise  the  temperature  uh  a  little 
 bit  you  see  people  making  attempts  at 
 building  little  structures  over  their 
 plants  and  that's  on  the  right  track  but 
 unless  it's  exactly  the  right  fabric  you 
 don't  want  those  little  structures  to 
 touch  the  leaves  with  plastic  touching 
 leaves  you  can  actually  burn  the  plant 
 and  do  it  rather  quickly  and  a  lot  of 
 times  I'll  see  plants  that  have  been 
 covered  improperly  and  they  look  worse 
 because  they  were  covered  with  some 
 material  like  plastic  or  I've  seen  use 
 of  big  plastic  garbage  bags  they  just 
 put  the  whole  bag  over  the  plant  that's 
 the  wrong  material  don't  use  it  I  saw 
 some  people  asking  about  landscape 
 fabric  I  wouldn't  use  landscape  fabric 
 anything  other  than  a  very  natural 
 fabric  like  this  Frost  blanket  that 
 we're  going  to  show  you  or  like  a  cotton 
 bed  sheet  stick  with  that  and  you'll 
 have  much  better  success  and  you  won't 
 have  the  actual  burning  of  plants  when 
 you're  try  trying  to  go  out  of  your  way 
 to  do  something  good  and  inadvertently 
 do  something  bad  so  this  is  a  nice 
 fabric  specifically  for  frost  protection 
 it's  available  online  this  one's  called 
 Harvest  guard  I  just  call  it  frost 
 fabric  this  is  just  uh  draped  over  the 
 plant  almost  like  you  would  cover  a 
 sleeping  uh  person  you  we  would  just 
 unroll  this  maybe  I  should  have  studied 
 how  it  was  packaged  more  closely  but 
 anyhow  what  we  want  to  do  is  get  this  so 
 that  we  can  spread  it  out  over  the  plant 
 you  can  spread  it  out  over  one  plant  or 
 a  bed  of  plants  and  then  you  can  keep  it 
 in  place  by  tucking  it  in  the  case  of 
 containers  you  can  tuck  it  under  the 
 container  but  in  your  landscape  you 
 could  just  set  you  know  a  brick  over  it 
 or  something  excuse  me  chip  oh  Chip's 
 going  to  help  oh  there  he  goes  go  ahead 
 chip  and  so  we're  creating  a  little 
 greenhouse  effect  act  here  definitely 
 out  in  the  landscape  it  would  make  a 
 huge  difference  in  a  greenhouse  I'm  not 
 sure  you  really  need  landscape  fabric  oh 
 Chip's  trying 
 to  walk  on 
 it  if  you're  so  inclined  I  usually  don't 
 do  this  but  it  says  uh  for  added  uh 
 protection  secure  the  Harvest  guard  to 
 the  ground  every  6  to  8  feet  using  uh 
 some  kind  of  staple  or  steak  or  or  a 
 brick  or  something  and  I  usually  just 
 use  a  single  layer  but  if  you're 
 expecting  really  cold  weather  the  double 
 layer  uh  will 
 help  whoa 
  is  that  comfy  yeah  he  thinks  it's 
 [Music] 
 oh  lights  on  the  pl  are  effective  and 
 can  work  might  give  you  a  little  bit  of 
 Advantage  but  it  usually  takes  power  um 
 so  it's  not  something  I  do  but  that  can 
 create  a  little  warmth  what  you're 
 looking  for  is  just  a  little  bit  of  an 
 edge  you  can't  get  20  25°  unless  you're 
 in  an  actual  Greenhouse  but  out  in  a 
 landscape  you  know  you're  looking  for 
 just  five  or  six  degrees  the  combination 
 of  all  these  little  things  can  help  you 
 put  them  all  together  and  then  build 
 your  soil  and  mulch  your  soil  you  can 
 get  quite  a  bit  of  advantage  and  not 
 have  the  kind  of  damage  that  Frost  can 
 do  to  plants  so  all  of  these  tips  work 
 great  with  our  products  and  I  would  use 
 our  blend  and  our  penetrate  liquid  bioer 
 so  the  blend  would  just  be  an  easy 
 topical  application  penetrate  liquid  bio 
 tiller  sprayed  over  the  top  those  are 
 excellent  products  in  order  to  build 
 life  in  the  soil  that  can  actually  act 
 as  an  antifreeze  and  and  give  us  a 
 couple  2  to  3°  Edge  combine  that  with  a 
 good  Frost  Fabric  and  uh  we've  done 
 something  dramatic  to  improve  growing 
 conditions  or  survival  conditions  for 
 plants  in  cold  weather  the  use  of  our 
 products  makes  the  most  sense  if  you  do 
 it  on  an  ongoing  basis  if  you  sense  okay 
 tonight  it's  going  to  be  really  cold 
 well  using  our  blend  and  our  penetrate 
 liquid  bioer  that  day  won't  do  anything 
 but  if  you're  aware  that  you're  going  to 
 have  some  cold  weather  in  the  winter  and 
 so  you  make  a  good  fall  application 
 then  a  week  or  two  before  if  you  know 
 it's  going  to  be  cold  maybe  you'd 
 supplement  with  another  application  of 
 penetrate  liquid  biot  tiller  another 
 thing  you  can  do  which  is  more  costly 
 and  quite  a  bit  of  work  but  maybe  you 
 would  just  use  it  selectively  on  price 
 plants  and  this  is  more  for  parts  of  the 
 country  that  aren't  brutally  cold  is  you 
 can  use  an  anti-tr  transparent 
 anti-transpirant 
 sprayed  a  couple  times  during  the  winter 
 um  will  give  you  an  advantage  in  terms 
 of  protection  from  cold  and  you  can  look 
 up  antitranspirant  that  are  available 
 online  it's  a  subject  that's  covered 
 well  online  I  wouldn't  use  that  as  a 
 mass  approach  I  would  use  that  as  a 
 specific  approach  for  a  prized  plant 
 that  shouldn't  get  as  much  Frost  as  you 
 think  it's  going  to  get  most  people  seem 
 to  think  at  the  first  sign  of  cold  they 
 want  to  protect  their  citrus  trees  I'd 
 rather  leave  them  unprotected  mostly 
 citrus  trees  in  home  gardens  are  not  you 
 know  you  don't  depend  on  the  crop  for 
 the  revenue  it's  going  to  produce  and  a 
 lot  of  times  the  trouble  that  you  go 
 through  to  protect  the  tree  isn't  worth 
 it  I  mean  I  would  go  to  the  trouble  of 
 trying  to  build  the  soil  and  mulch  the 
 soil  and  those  kinds  of  things  uh  would 
 help  immensely  but  not  building 
 structures  over  the  Citrus  because 
 usually  the  only  thing  that's  threatened 
 unless  you're  in  a  real  cold  area  is  the 
 crop 
 not  the  tree  itself  to  kill  the  tree 
 itself  of  a  citrus  you  need  to  get  below 
 20°  but  that's  not  a  huge  disaster  one 
 year  if  the  crop  is  damaged  so  the 
 conclusion  is  it  not  only  is  great  for 
 plants  but  excellent  for  small  dogs  that 
 want  a  comfortable  place  to  to  lay  chips 
 enjoying  it  and  uh  hopefully  the 
 agapanthus  don't  mind  too  much  hey  we're 
 close  to  30,000  subscribers  and  we  need 
 to  get  there  before  uh  the  end  of  the 
 year  so  help  us  recruit  people  to 
 subscribe  and  if  you  enjoyed  the  video 
 uh  let  us  know  in  the  comments  below  and 
 we  hope  you  have  a  great  holiday  season 
 and  uh  we  will  continue  posting  videos 
 for  you  next  week

---

 we're  here  in  front  of  my  new  house 
 that's  under  construction  that's  modeled 
 after  a  Maybeck  house  built  in  1915  for 
 the  first  time  I  can  show  you  a 
 conceptual  landscape  plan  and  look  at  a 
 few  things  going  on  in  the  construction 
 here  and  we're  on  a  historic  Street  in 
 Fresno  called  Christmas  Tree  Lane  we'll 
 show  you  some  Christmas  decorations  and 
 get  into  the  spirit  we're  going  um  to 
 the  most  well  lit  house  on  Christmas 
 Tree  Lane  which  might  give  you  a 
 headache  but  uh  if  you  feel  like  uhu 
 getting  a  headache  keep  watching  the 
 video  at  the  end  of  the  video  I've  got 
 some  good  gift  ideas  for  you  and  some 
 discounts  available  boy  isn't  that 
 festive  a  Christmas  skeleton  huh  oh  look 
 at  Santa  in  the 
 tree  that's  a  beautiful  eucalyptus  I'm 
 John  Valentino  president  of  John  and 
 Bobs  and  Chip  Valentino  is  here  today  uh 
 looking  clean  and  fluffy  he  just  got 
 groomed  what  do  you  think  chip  a 
 Christmas 
 skeleton  all  the  board  and  batten  has 
 been  painted  that's  the  Carolina  Gull 
 Benjamin  Moore  color  that's  around  the 
 whole  house  and  then  under  it  will  be 
 the  stule  the  stule  part  is  going  to  be 
 a  mission  style  stuckle  which  I  have  a 
 sample  of  here  which  I  for  some  reason 
 broke  you  can  see  it's  missing  a  corner 
 of  it  the  stuckle  part  has  burnished 
 it's  burnished  and  so  it'll  have  some 
 modeling  to  it  probably  a  little  more 
 than  this  sample  shows  that'll  be  the 
 final  finish  on  all  the  part  that  looks 
 like  stucko  right  now  and  then  the  fence 
 which  we'll  show  you  on  the  plan  we'll 
 have  a  lot  of  this  material  also  some  of 
 the  same  materials  that  we're  using  for 
 the  house  will  be  in  the  fence  so  that 
 the  fence  looks  like  an  extension  of  the 
 house  what  is  my  favorite  chip  what's  my 
 favorite  part  of  Christmas  I'm 
 anticipating  that  my  favorite  part  this 
 year  will  be  my  first 
 Christmas  uh  Opening  Our  gifts  with  our 
 two  uh  grandsons  early  Christmas  morning 
 and  other  Christmases  they've  uh 
 traveled  out  of  town  to  other  relatives 
 house  so  that  will  be  my  favorite  part 
 uh  this  year  we  needed  a  support  here  so 
 we  uh  designed  this  a  support  system 
 that's  actually  um  flat  dragon's  breath 
 which  I  think  we're  going  to  use  for  the 
 arbor  the  arbor  will  be  metal  and  wood 
 this  is  the  front  door  and  as  you  can 
 see  as  opposed  to  last  time  now  we  have 
 a  sheetrock  and  we  have  the  beginning  of 
 a  ceiling  the  ceiling  is  an  interesting 
 material  that  came  from  a  sawmill  in 
 California  that  was  torn  down  the 
 Sawmill  was  built  in  the  early 
 1900s  and  this  old  growth  Redwood  was 
 used  so  it  went  from  this  look  uh  which 
 is  what  it  looked  like  when  it  was  taken 
 off  the  building  uh 
 to  uh  this  look  which  is  uh  what  we're 
 using  um  to  put  on  the  ceiling  you  can 
 see  the  original  nail  holes  and  then 
 we're  going  to  use  some  kind  of  oil  type 
 finish  on  it  to  give  it  just  a  little 
 more  character  than  it  has  currently 
 what  we've  done  over  the  last  30  or  40 
 years  is  from  our  Nursery  I  usually  take 
 about  five  or  six  uh  real  trees  into  the 
 house  and  we  put  lights  on  them  a  lot  of 
 times  it's  a  redwood  or  some  kind  of 
 pine  we've  gotten  to  where  it's  just  my 
 wife  and  I  now  usually  I  just  take  one 
 or  two  trees  now  uh  but  yeah  we  end  up 
 with  a  a  real  life  Christmas  tree  or 
 more  than  one  as  soon  as  the  ceiling  is 
 complete  we've  got  the  flooring  going  in 
 right  behind  it  and  as  soon  as  the 
 flooring's  in  we're  ready  to  put  the 
 kitchen  cabinets  in  they're  mostly  built 
 with  with  the  water  on  it  it  it's  more 
 like  what  it  looks  like 
 like  this  is  a  sample  of  the  kitchen 
 cabinets  which  is  a  dramatic  kind  of 
 Asian  red  um  which  will  be  in  the  Main 
 Kitchen  there's  a  prep  kitchen  that'll 
 um  be  all  white  but  the  main  kitchen  has 
 this  color  possibly  on  the  front  door 
 also  we're  contemplating  that  and  then 
 the  Walnut  flooring  which  is  in  the 
 living  room  and  the  dining  room  and  the 
 master  bedroom  and  a  few  of  the  rooms 
 like  that  you'll  see  on  the  landscape 
 plan  has  a  nice  Courtyard  here  with  four 
 trees  shading  it  we  only  were  able  to 
 build  the  upstairs  by  telling  my  wife 
 she'd  never  have  to  come  up  here  cuz  she 
 doesn't  want  to  you  have  stairs  anymore 
 our  current  house  has  stairs  this  is  my 
 office  one  of  the  nicest  uh  guest  rooms 
 which  has  a  beautiful  view  out  to 
 Christmas  Tree 
 Lane  this  has  a  sample  of  the  coverings 
 that  are  going  to  go  around  uh  all  the 
 windows  in  the  house  that's  just  a 
 mockup  the  master  bedroom  it  has  these 
 French  doors  which  uh  come  out  onto  an 
 area  that  leads  to  the  main  circulation 
 of  the  backyard  which  we'll  look  at  on 
 the  landscape  plant  oh  I  like  those  I'm 
 a  fan  of  Pink  Flamingos  when  uh  my 
 daughter  was  three  we  took  her  to  the 
 zoo  and  showed  her  pink  flamingos  she 
 said  you  know  they're  not  actually  pink 
 they're  Peach  and  so  we've  been  quoting 
 that  famous  uh  peach  Flamingo  line  since 
 she  was  three  you  think  those  are  Peach 
 yeah  even  those  are  kind  of  peach 
 colored 
 huh  so  this  is  laid  out  uh  just  the  way 
 we're  standing  we're  standing  in  the 
 house  uh  right  about  here  and  the  family 
 room  has  these  big  double  doors  that 
 goes  out  into  an  arbor  uh  that  will  be 
 like  an  additional  room  the  Main  Street 
 where  we  would  show  you  the  Christmas 
 decorations  is  right  along  here 
 then  the  front  is  separated  from  the 
 back  with  some  type  of  uh  permanent 
 fencing  that  will  look  like  the  same 
 architecture  of  of  the  house  so  either 
 that  burnished  uh  plaster  or  perhaps  the 
 board  and  Baton  it  creates  a  courtyard 
 off  of  our  living  room  where  chip  can 
 look  out  this  window  out  into  this 
 Courtyard  and  through  we're  going  to 
 have  a  break  in  the  wall  with  uh  just 
 metal  so  you  can  see  out  to  the  street 
 cuz  chip  likes  to  look  out  to  the  street 
 and  then  this  um  wall  continues  and  this 
 is  the  main  pedestrian  entrance  which 
 goes  to  the  front  door  there's  a  little 
 seating  area  and  this  uh  has  the 
 circulation  all  the  way  around  that 
 connects  to  uh  front 
 parking  okay  so  let's  go  see  the  crazy 
 one  oh  wow  look  at  that 
 chip 
 [Music] 
 whoa  you  can't  even  tell  there's  a  house 
 there 
 huh  look  at  that  it's  Mickey 
 [Music] 
 Mouse  this  definitely  wins  for  the  most 
 [Music] 
 lights  just  inside  of  this  wall  that 
 separates  the  front  from  the  back  will 
 be  a  lap  pool  that's  only  8  ft  wide  and 
 75  ft  long  we're  attempting  to  make  it 
 look  like  both  a  lap  pool  and  a  water 
 feature  this  area  then  is  a  Courtyard 
 area  we're  redesigning  this  right  now 
 off  of  the  two  French  doors  of  the  guest 
 bedroom  and  the  master  bedroom  and  it's 
 going  to  lead  to  like  a  a  mountain  hot 
 spring  but  it's  going  to  look  more  like 
 a  whol  poool  bathtub  probably  but  be  a 
 combination  of  those  two  it's  going  to 
 be  a  little  more  secluded  than  it  shows 
 here  and  then  that 
 continues  with  another  little  seating 
 area  with  pots  and  then  that  wraps 
 around  and  goes  to  this  right  here  is 
 the  existing  guest  house  that's  we've 
 kind  of  tied  into  the  new  house  this  is 
 like  the  first  step  where  we've  done  a 
 conceptual  plan  we're  looking  at  this 
 carefully  evaluating  it  making  some 
 changes  here  and  there  um  but  this  gives 
 you  a  sense  of  uh  what  the  landscape  SL 
 Garden  will  look  like  and  how  we're 
 going  to  create  what  we  hope  are  special 
 spaces  and  um  how  the  whole  thing  ties 
 together  in  terms  of  circulation  I  never 
 get  uh  gardening  gifts  because  I  think 
 they  figure  I  have  all  the  gardening 
 paraphernalia  I  want  sometimes  I  have 
 received  books  that  are  related  to 
 famous  Landscapes  and  a  great  book  that 
 I  like  it's  a  historical  book  that  I've 
 referred  to  in  a  lot  of  our  videos  is  uh 
 Gardens  are  for  people  which  captures 
 kind  of  the  essence  of  what  I  think 
 Landscaping  should  be  about  and  that's 
 by  Thomas  Church  so  for  good  gardening 
 gifts  obviously  I'm  a  fan  of  our  own 
 products  and  we  have  some  gift  packages 
 that  are  set  up  for  people  of  different 
 gardening  tastes  like  you  know  a  a 
 general  gardening  gift  package  and 
 there's  one  for  tomato  Growers  and  they 
 all  have  different  ones  of  our  products 
 depending  on  um  what  they're  for  some 
 have  some  pruning  sheares  and  some 
 gardening  gloves  and  uh  small  gardening 
 tools  it  makes  a  great  gift  for  a 
 gardener  the  other  thing  that  makes  a  a 
 lot  of  sense  this  time  of  year  is  we 
 have  a  really  good  indoor  fertilizer 
 called  uh  optimize  plus  and  it's  a 
 granular  product  that  is  excellent  on 
 indoor  plants  of  all  types  this  is 
 pretty  a  pretty  nice  view 
 huh  I  don't  know  why  put 
 it  so  we're  going  to  do  a  donation  I 
 like  it  right  into  the  donation  uh  can 
 you  if  you're  in  a  car  can  you  reach 
 that  no  what  we  do  is  we  stand  here  oh 
 oh  oh  then  oh  I  seeum  it  in  okay  can  you 
 do  uh  I'm  going  to  put  another  five  in 
 then  can  you  absolutely  that's  wonderful 
 yeah  this  is  good  I'll  make  it  10  I 
 don't  have  five  okay  there's  my  thank 
 you  very  much  Merry  Christmas  well  thank 
 you  it  didn't  come 
 out  so  Chip  and  I  just  walked  up  and 
 down  Christmas  Tree  Lane  and  we  got  so 
 much  into  the  spirit  that  we're  going  to 
 make  it  10%  off  of  everything  on  our 
 website  not  just  the  Christmas  gifts 
 gift  packages  but  also  every  other  item 
 whatever  you  want  to  buy  10%  off  this 
 Christmas  so  Chip  and  I  did  a  little 
 different  video  for  you  here  hopefully 
 you  enjoyed  it  and  that  you  have  a  very 
 beautiful  and  Merry  Christmas  and  a 
 Happy  New  Year  and  uh  we  will  see  you 
 soon  with  uh  more  interesting  videos 
 about  our  work  in  gardening  and 
 Landscaping  what's  in  front  of  your 
 house  right  now  it's  the  Santa  with  the 
 elves  really  nicely 
 done

---

 we  had  a  request  from  one  of  you  about 
 sandy  soil  we're  constantly  talking 
 about  clay  soil  but  not  much  about  sandy 
 soil  So  today  we're  going  to  teach  you 
 all  about  how  to  fix  and  improve  sandy 
 soil  sandy  soil  drains  water  quickly  so 
 it's  hard  to  keep  it  properly  watered  it 
 dries  out  fast  because  water  goes  right 
 through  it  and  also  the  same  with 
 nutrients  nutrients  go  right  through  it 
 so  sandy  soil  is  light  that  lightness 
 leads  to  problems  with  water  problem  s 
 with  nutrients  I'm  John  Valentino 
 president  of  J  Bob's  Corporation  I'm  a 
 landscape  architect  a  landscape 
 contractor  and  this  is  Chip  Valentino 
 and  we're  here  at  a  little  front  yard 
 that  we  just  remodeled  actually  designed 
 by  another  landscape  architect  local  one 
 in  Fresno  Bob  Boral  I  thought  of  coming 
 here  because  it  does  have  sandy  soil  it 
 has  Fresno's  version  of  sandy  soil  now  I 
 know  some  of  you  that  have  really  sandy 
 soil  would  think  that  this  soil  is  not 
 that  Sandy  if  you  make  a  wall  it  does 
 stick  together  but  it's  Sandy  it's  light 
 water  goes  through  it  quickly  nutrients 
 go  through  it  quickly  if  you  have  a 
 whole  lot  of  sand  in  your  mixture  of 
 sand  silt  and  Clay  then  you  can't  do 
 this  you  know  you  you  put  it  in  a  ball 
 and  it  just  falls  apart  because  it's 
 sand  so  this  is  an  area  where  there  was 
 a  lawn  now  there's  a  lorii  corop  a 
 ground  cover  in  front  of  the  ly  and  a 
 bunch  of  this  herb  called  fever  fu  a 
 type  of  crysanthemum  you  can  see  we've 
 got  a  nice  layer  of  mulch  a  little  more 
 than  an  inch  and  then  in  there  is  really 
 a  very  light  uh  sandy  soil  uh  you  can 
 see  it's  easy  even  with  just  a  little 
 hand  trial  easy  to  dig  in 
 it  doesn't  matter  what  kind  of  soil  you 
 have  what  kind  of  soil  problem  you  have 
 the  way  to  fix  it  is  all  the  same  we're 
 going  to  infuse  it  with  life  and  food 
 for  life  and  attractants  for  Life  those 
 beneficial  bacteria  fungi  protozoa  good 
 nematodes  earthworms  all  of  that  that's 
 the  way  to  make  sand  less  porous  make 
 sand  retain  moisture  better  and  retain 
 nutrients  better  and  that's  the  same  way 
 to  make  clay  more  porous  so  it's  it's 
 really 
 incredible  we  don't  want  to  just  have 
 baren  sand  and  put  a  bunch  of  stuff  on 
 it  you  you  could  do  that  and  it'll  help 
 a  little  but  it's  better  if  you  have  a 
 bunch  of  Baron  sand  and  you  plant  things 
 doesn't  really  matter  what  you  could 
 even  plant  a  cover  crop  like  radishes 
 radishes  do  good  in  sand  carrots  or 
 landscape  plants  you  could  plant  the 
 plants  we  used  in  this  yard  which  is  a 
 lot  of  tropical 
 things  so  you  want  to  plant  something 
 and  then  you  want  to  try  to  infuse  that 
 soil  with  life  so  what  you  need  is 
 organic  matter  and  uh  microbes  and  food 
 for  microbes  attractants  for  microbes 
 all  the  those  are  usually  inherent  in 
 organic  matter  compost  is  recognized  as 
 probably  the  fastest  way  to  change  sandy 
 soil  if  you  only  use  uh  synthetic 
 products  synthetic  fertilizers  uh  most 
 famous  being  Miracle  Grow  it'll  just 
 leech  right  through  the  soil  plants  like 
 Miracle  Grow  but  soil  doesn't 
 particularly  like  Miracle  Grow  it  won't 
 improve  it'll  stay  the  same  you'll  have 
 the  same  problems  associated  with  sand 
 uh  you  can  see  it's  pretty  Sandy  so  oh 
 look  at 
 that  we  got  a  the  soil  food  web  working 
 with  an  earthworm  that's  what  we  want  in 
 sandy  soil  that's  rich  sandy  soil  we  use 
 penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller  and  we  use 
 optimize  maximize  nourish  biosol  all 
 ways  that  have  either  beneficial 
 microbes  or  food  for  microbes  or 
 attractants  for  microbes  the  components 
 in  a  good  quality  compost  penetrate 
 liquid  bio  tiller  is  named  that  because 
 it's  kind  of  miraculous  what  it  does  for 
 heavy  clay  soil  it's  great  for  sandy 
 soil  too  because  it  starts  this  process 
 of  building  beneficial  life  and  so 
 bacteria  being  the  lowest  form  of  life 
 and  and  food  for  the  bacteria  we  plant 
 plants  in  the  sand  and  then  we  spray  it 
 with  penetrate  liquid  bio  Tiller  that 
 starts  this  process  in  sand  which  tends 
 to  be  kind  of  inert  in  addition  to 
 penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller  we'll  use 
 our  other  products  optimize  maximize 
 nourish  biosol  and  those  products  will 
 do  a  combination  of  feeding  the  plants 
 and  feeding  the  soil  and  feeding  the 
 soil  in  a  way  that  it'll  work  with  the 
 penetrate  liquid  bioer  and  we  have  this 
 whole  system  now  with  plants  growing  and 
 products  in  the  soil  that  allow 
 essentially  the  soil  food  web  to  move  on 
 and  all  of  the  components  of  the  so  soil 
 food  web  including  earthworms  by 
 continuing  to  apply  those  products  every 
 6  months  or  so  we're  changing  the  soil 
 on  an  ongoing  basis  rather  than  just 
 when  we  did  the  renovation  which  is  a 
 neat  thing  about  the  line  of  John  and 
 Bob's  is  we  can  improve  the  soil  over 
 time  as  the  plants  grow  um  the  soil 
 changes  right  along  with  it  which  won't 
 happen  if  we  were  just  using  a  synthetic 
 fertilizer  you  can  see  that's  the 
 results  of  the  soil  food  food  web  where 
 you  start  with  infusing  it  with  bacteria 
 then  fungi  eat  the  bacteria  and  then  um 
 protozoa  and  good  nematodes  and  you 
 build  up  this  uh  whole  community  of 
 beneficial  uh  microbes  that  go  higher 
 and  higher  up  resulting  in 
 earthworms  the  other  thing  that's  uh 
 real  important  as  you  use  our  products 
 or  a  good  compost  product  or  earthor 
 castings  anything  with  life  is  to  mulch 
 the  soil  it's  important  with  any  kind  of 
 soil  but  with  sand  maybe  even  a  little 
 more  important  than  most  so  you  can  see 
 on  this  soil  we  used  1  to  2  in  of  a  good 
 quality  mulch  that  was  after  using  the 
 penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller  and  our 
 combination  of  maximize  optimize  nourish 
 bi  I'll  call  blend  this  one  is  a  type  of 
 walk-  on  bark  that  we  use  because  I 
 haven't  been  able  to  get  recently  that 
 double  ground  shredded  Cedar  that  I've 
 talked  about  in  other  videos  but  any 
 kind  of  coarse  mulch  will  work  it  stays 
 put  it  retains  moisture  it  protects  the 
 sand  or  whatever  you  have  from  rain  and 
 from  heat  from  the  Sun  so  it's  a  great 
 way  to  really  help  your  soil  and  respect 
 your  soil  some  kind  of  mulch  layer  over 
 the  top  it's  good  to  refresh  that  mulch 
 layer  not  just  do  it  upon  installation 
 but  uh  continue  to  keep  it  at  1  and  a 
 half  to  2  in  thick  and  so  that  might 
 require  uh  every  year  or  every  other 
 year  adding  some  uh  to  the  top  and 
 that's  important  with  sandy  soil  that'll 
 make  a  huge  difference  so  we  proved  if 
 you  ask  us  to  do  a  video  we  might  do  it 
 hopefully  it  was  helpful  to  you  if  you 
 have  a  suggestion  for  a  topic  on  a  video 
 put  it  in  the 
 comments

---

 have  you  overseed  or  do  you  have  a  cool 
 season  grass  and  you  want  to  keep  it 
 green  through  the  fall  and  the  winter 
 we're  going  to  tell  you  how  we'll  give 
 you  some  details  on  what  type  of 
 fertilizer  to  use  and  the  timing  which 
 is  really  the  most  important  part  pretty 
 good  nice  color  dense  came  up  nicely  I 
 like  it  so  this  lawn  is  a  hybrid  Bermuda 
 lawn  and  it  had  some  real  problems  right 
 at  the  tail  end  of  the  summer  that  we 
 address  and  it's  starting  to  get  better 
 when  our  weather  cooled  completely  and 
 we  overseed  it  with  perennial  Ry  grass 
 which  you  can  see  is  a  way  to  instantly 
 solve  everything  it  came  up  beautifully 
 our  challenge  is  how  do  we  keep  it 
 looking  great  and  how  do  we  make  it  so 
 we  don't  have  that  problem  with  fungus 
 as  the  weather  warms  next 
 year  this  is  a  warm  season  grass  that  as 
 soon  as  we  start  getting  cool 
 temperatures  turns  brown  and  if  you  want 
 it  to  be  green  all  year  round  then  you 
 have  to  overseed  it  which  Enrique  did 
 here  he  overseed  it  with  perennial  ride 
 you  might  have  seen  him  or  if  you  didn't 
 check  out  last  week's  video  on 
 maintenance  in  the  fall  and  the 
 winter  then  you  have  the  challenge  of 
 how  do  you  feed  it  to  keep  it  looking 
 really  good  when  the  temperatures  aren't 
 that  conducive  to  lawn  really  thriving 
 if  you  want  the  absolute  greenest  around 
 then  what  you  need  to  do  is  focus  on 
 nitrogen  that  will  release  when  we  still 
 have  a  little  bit  of  warm  weather  like 
 today  here  in  Fresno  California  we're 
 going  to  get  into  the  probably  70°  well 
 in  that  temperature  fertilizer  will 
 release  it  will  color  up  the  lawn  really 
 well  and  we  want  to  spend  this  part  of 
 November  focused  on  getting  our  lawn  as 
 Juiced  up  as  possible  with  nitrogen 
 because  that  will  carry  over  into 
 December  and  January 
 in  January  we  don't  have  the  weather  for 
 it  but  it'll  still  have  the  vestages  of 
 that  nitrogen  and  it'll  still  look  good 
 so  this  is  a  very  strategic 
 month  our  nourish  biosol  or  value  Rich 
 will  work  as  long  as  the  highs  are  in 
 the  70s  when  you  get  into  highs  in  the 
 50s  or  even  low  60s  and  lows  in  the  30s 
 then  it's  less  effective  if  you  overseed 
 and  use  blend  and  penetrate  then  you're 
 good  to  go  from  a  soil  standpoint  but 
 you'll  have  the  same  issue  of  the  color 
 of  the  lawn  starting  to  fade  as  soon  as 
 the  weather  gets  cool  a  lot  of  times 
 what  I'll  recommend  is  to  use  our 
 product  but  to  also  this  is  probably  the 
 one  time  of  the  year  to  people  that  want 
 their  lawn  really  green  through  the 
 winter  I'll  recommend  a  synthetic 
 fertilizer  and  that  is  what  you  might 
 call  a  winterizing  fertilizer  and  those 
 WI  winterizing  fertilizers  they'll  have 
 a  form  of  nitrogen  that  releases  in  cool 
 weather  that's  why  they  call  it 
 winterizing  no  matter  what  kind  of  lawn 
 you  have  fall  and  winter  is  a  much  more 
 disease  free  time  rust  is  a  common  one 
 and  prevent  the  rust  by  hyping  it  up  on 
 nitrogen  the  best  way  to  get  rid  of  rust 
 is  to  grow  it  out  of  the  rust  with  with 
 nitrogen  if  you  have  some  warm  weather 
 you  can  do  that  pretty 
 easily  so  there's  there's  nothing 
 involving  health  of  the  soil  or  the  lawn 
 that  requires  you  to  fertilize  in 
 November  it's  purely  an  aesthetic  issue 
 it's  not  like  if  your  lawn's  really 
 green  you're  going  to  be  less  likely  to 
 have  fungus  next  summer  if  you  had  a 
 fungal  problem  before  no  to  be  less 
 likely  to  have  fungal  issues  in  the 
 summer  I  would  use  our  optimized  which 
 isn't  going  to  help  your  color  at  all 
 because  there's  not  much  nitrogen  in  it 
 but  I  would  use  optimize  right  now  in 
 either  November  or  December  it's  a  soil 
 conditioner  and  it  breaks  down  very 
 slowly  it's  not  going  to  break  down 
 quickly  with  rain  and  leech  through  the 
 soil  it's  going  to  hold  right  here  I'm 
 not  a  fan  nor  do  I  recommend  using 
 fertilizer  on  plants  and  trees  in  the 
 fall  and  the  winter  the  exception  to 
 that  is  our 
 [Music] 
 optimize  now  on  my  own  lawn  I  don't  use 
 a  synthetic  fertilizer  I  just  use 
 nourish  biosol  it'll  release  now  as  long 
 as  the  highs  are  where  they  are  and  then 
 in  January  usually  it'll  start  to  look 
 not  quite  so  green  soon  as  we  get  to 
 February  then  I'll  apply  nourished 
 biosol  again  in  order  to  Green  it  up  and 
 the  neat  thing  about  that  nourished 
 biosol  is  I  know  that  it's  good  for  the 
 soil  I'm  building  the  soil  while  I'm 
 addressing  the  color  of  the  lawn  whereas 
 if  I  use  that  onetime  synthetic 
 fertilizer  it's  strictly  to  address  the 
 color  of  the  lawn  it's  not  building  the 
 soil  in  fact  if  you  use  too  much  of  it 
 it's  bad  for  the  soil  hopefully  this 
 video  from  Chip  and  I  has  been  helpful 
 you  know  we're  very  close  to  30,000 
 subscribers  we're  trying  to  hit  that  in 
 November  so  tell  everyone  you  know  to 
 subscribe  my  friend  Jonathan  just 
 subscribed  on  the  Sunday  so  I  don't  I 
 don't  have  that  many  friends  like 
 Jonathan  that  I  can  tell  so  I'm  relying 
 on  you  to  subscribe  people  that  I  don't 
 necessarily  know  but  see  our  videos  and 
 know  other  people  that  might  be 
 benefited  from  uh  a  channel  like  ours 
 that  focuses  on  real  life  horiculture 
 real  life  landscape  and  gardening  and 
 real  life  soil  and  that's  what  we  want 
 is  Lively  soil  so  help  us  get  to  30,000 
 and  uh  get  some  more  subscribers

---

 it  like  that  kiss  it  like  that  making  it 
 lash  bring  it  right  back  it  like  that 
 move  it  like  that  like  it  like  how  do  I 
 do 
 [Music] 
 it  like  do  it  like 
 like  bring  it  right  back  it  like  it  like 
 it

---

 so  we're  going  to  show  you  how  to  look 
 at  trees  in  a  nursery  and  how  to  pick 
 them  out  chip  has  some  ideas  on  how  to 
 get  the  best  ones  chip  and  I  provide 
 some  tips  on  how  you  plant  the  trees  and 
 we'll  look  at  some  of  our  favorite 
 Fall's  one  of  the  best  times  to  plant 
 trees  there's  several  reasons  for  that 
 they  can  root  while  it's  cool  then  go 
 into  dormy  as  it  gets  cold  and  then  be 
 ready  to  grow  in  the  spring  if  you  want 
 something  with  fall  color  you  can  start 
 to  see  the  fall  color  in  the  trees  in 
 the  nursery  chip  is  a  Nursery  manager 
 today  here  at  Green  Hills  he  had  that 
 honorary  title  bestowed  upon  him  okay 
 chip  you  ready  to  go  sometimes  he  rides 
 on  these  so  I  think  he's  ready  now  let's 
 go  take  a  look  in  the 
 nursery  we're  in  November  but  we've  had 
 pretty  warm  weather  and  our  fall  season 
 is  just  starting  and  you  can  see  that 
 you  have  some  fall  color  on  a  lot  of 
 these  trees  right  now  we're  in  a  row  of 
 big  box  trees  I  would  call  these  36in 
 box  trees 
 this  one  is  Oklahoma  Red  Bud  which  has  a 
 little  bit  of  fall  color  and  to  get  an 
 idea  of  price  here  in  Fresno  California 
 this  36in  box  Oklahoma  red  bud  is  about 
 $800  and  Oklahoma  Redbud  you  know  we've 
 talked  about  before  this  whole  bunch  of 
 Red  Buds  that  stay  small  good  patio 
 Scale  tree  doesn't  misbehave  and  has 
 that  fantastic  bloom  in  the  spring  and 
 then  we've  talked  about  the  other  Red 
 Buds  like 
 flamethrower  that  has  a  nice  color  on 
 the  leaves  in  addition  to  that  fantastic 
 bloom  in  the  spring  it's  kind  of  like 
 going  to  a  grocery  store  and  just 
 walking  through  without  knowing  what  you 
 want  I  would  prefer  that  you  have  a  plan 
 now  sometimes  you'll  have  a  formal  plan 
 and  then  you  know  exactly  what  you  want 
 and  the  quantities  or  if  it's  more  of 
 where  you're  just  adding  one  or  two  of 
 something  at  least  you  have  an  idea  of 
 what  those  one  or  two  things  could  be 
 maybe  a  tree  is  dyed  and  you're 
 replacing  one  tree  and  you  look  online 
 and  find  two  or  three  that  you  like  then 
 you  need  to  see  if  they're  available 
 locally  that's  one  thing  you'll  run 
 across  frequently  is  now  with  the 
 internet  you  have  this  tremendous 
 ability  to  look  at  all  kinds  of  plants 
 and  learn  about  all  kinds  of  plants  but 
 the  ones  that  are  available  in  your 
 local  area  aren't  always  what  you  end  up 
 liking  online  there's  a  number  of 
 reasons  one  might  be  that  your  Zone 
 isn't  conduc  Ive  to  Growing  that  tree 
 and  so  the  local  nurseries  don't  carry 
 it  or  sometimes  there's  plants  that  will 
 go  great  in  your  Zone  but  nobody  knows 
 about  them  because  nobody  knows  about 
 them  nobody  buys  them  and  because  nobody 
 buys  them  the  nursery  doesn't  carry  them 
 they  only  want  to  carry  things  that  they 
 can  sell  and  so  sometimes  you'll  be  a 
 little  bit  limited  good  nurseries  like 
 Green  Hills  Nursery  will  try  to  find  it 
 for  you  but  this  availability  of  plants 
 is  really  a  big  issue  a  lot  of  times 
 we'll  get  a  plant  drawn  by  somebody  else 
 and  it  has  all  kinds  of  plants  on  there 
 that  are  interesting  that  would  be  fun 
 but  they're  almost  impossible  to  find  I 
 like  to  try  to  combine  doing  design  work 
 with  knowing  what's  available  locally 
 and  knowing  what  a  nursery  like  Green 
 Hills  can  get  or  has  in  stocks  we're  uh 
 stuck  as  soon  as  we  walked  in  the 
 nursery  one  of  the  best  shade  trees  for 
 our  area  in  that  it's  very  well  behaved 
 it's  a  type  of  Chinese  pistache  called 
 Keith  Davy  the  fall  color  is  just 
 starting  you  can  see  at  the  tip  pretty 
 soon  the  whole  tree  will  be  that  color 
 and  by  grafting  it  you  guarantee  a 
 certain  fall  color  guarantee  No  Berries 
 and  guarantee  this  kind  of  maintenance 
 free  tree  this  is  a  48  in  box  tree 
 retail  price  is 
 $2,000  as  you  walk  through  here  we  get 
 an  idea  of  pretty  much  all  the  trees 
 that  grow  in  our  area  what  they've  done 
 is  have  this  allay  of  box  trees  if 
 you're  at  a  local  Nursery  usually  most 
 of  the  plants  there  grow  in  your  Zone  as 
 we  walk  in  the  nursery  we  have  this  list 
 that  we've  made  of  what  we  want  to  buy 
 and  that  list  is  dictated  by  our 
 conditions  that  we're  going  to  grow  them 
 in  type  of  soil  and  type  of  Maintenance 
 and  type  of  sun  exposure  and  type  of 
 cold  exposure  and  all  of  those  things 
 you've  already  considered  as  we  walk  in 
 here  and  then  we'll  look  at 
 possibilities  and  sometimes  we'll  expand 
 our  list  when  we  see  something 
 spectacular  this  Marina  or  beino  or 
 strawberry  tree  is  a  very  nice  tree  that 
 does  well  in  Fresno  and  it's  small  so  if 
 you  don't  want  something  really  big  like 
 a  Chinese  pistache  you  have  a  small  lot 
 you  could  use  like  Arbutus  Marina  which 
 only  it's  about  15  or  20  ft  tall  palav 
 tree  you  can  get  them  standard  or  multi 
 mostly  the  ones  sold  in  the  nursery  are 
 a  variety  called  desert  Museum  which  are 
 a  little  smaller  than  a  full-size  pality 
 a  fruitless  Olive  a  multi-trunk 
 fruitless  Olive  this  is  a 
 variety  oh  I  was  wrong  this  is  a 
 fruiting  Olive  Green  Hills  has  a  lot  of 
 fruitless  olives  but  that  particular 
 one's  a  fruiting  Olive  identified  on  the 
 tag  here's  an  exception  I  said  most  of 
 them  are  small  trees  this  is  a  Chinese 
 Elm  which  is  a  big  tree  that  grows  like 
 crazy  so  that's  a  kind  of  a  stroll  P 
 down  the  first  aisle  that  we  came  to 
 which  took  way  too  long  but  Brendan  can 
 edit  it  in  landscaping  usually  you're 
 trying  to  create  a  feeling  an  immediate 
 feeling  and  because  we're  not  real 
 patient  there's  a  huge  preference  for 
 the  bigger  the  plant  the  better  in  terms 
 of  the  health  of  the  plant  it's  really 
 the  smaller  the  plant  the  better  also 
 way  less  expensive  you  saw  we  were 
 looking  at  $800  $22,000  trees  and  you 
 can  buy  the  exact  same  tree  for  $75  to 
 $100  but  in  a  smaller  container  usually 
 in  our  area  15  gallon  is  the  smallest 
 planted  and  that's  a  nice  size  to  use 
 and  the  price  goes  way  down  we'll  look 
 at  some  15  gallon  trees  here  usually 
 late  in  the  year  roses  are  hard  to  find 
 here  they  still  have  an  excellent 
 selection  of  tree  roses  you  can  see 
 behind  us  and  shrub  roses  right  in  front 
 of  us  and  they're  all  labeled  so  this  is 
 one  where  you  could  do  your  research 
 look  at  your  dream  roses  the  ones  you 
 really  want  and  then  come  to  a  nursery 
 and  try  to  find  those  varieties  next  to 
 the  Roses  they  have  a  section  it's  more 
 like  topiary  and  plants  pruned  into 
 things  and  they're  all  Evergreens  a  lot 
 of  them  are  conifers  do  those  much  trees 
 or  are  those  shrs  no  I  mean  they  are 
 they  are  plants  that  could  be  grown  as 
 trees  but  they're  being  grown  as  as  a 
 shrub  here  you  know  they  grow  some  and 
 they'll  be  a  little  bigger  than  they  are 
 in  the  container  but  not  into  to  a  big 
 tree  you're  going  to  keep  them  about 
 this 
 size  all  nurseries  in  Fresno  need  to 
 have  shade  cloths  in  Fairly  large 
 sections  because  a  lot  of  the  plants 
 especially  in  containers  are  more 
 sensitive  to  Sun  you  can  see  as  we 
 continue  down  we're  in  15  gallon  trees 
 now  and  this  is  a  nice  variety  of  maple 
 called  Autumn  fantasy  so  this  is  an  8990 
 Tree  in  a  15g  container  and  you  can  see 
 how  different  that  is  from  the  prices  we 
 were  looking  at  in  the  big  boxes  yeah  I 
 would  much  prefer  to  plant  a  tree  of 
 this  size  and  then  stake  it  properly  and 
 feed  it  properly  one  thing  you  want  to 
 look  for  is  it's  nice  to  buy  them  with 
 the  trunk  straight  and  not  wound  around 
 the  steak  it  is  true  that  it's  better 
 for  trees  not  to  have  to  stake  them 
 unfortunately  in  a  nursery  you  have  no 
 choice  in  order  to  get  them  to  grow 
 straight  you  have  to  stake  them  and  it's 
 good  to  be  able  to  sell  a  straight  tree 
 our  goal  here  is  as  soon  as  possible  to 
 take  this  steak  off  and  produce  a  tree 
 that  doesn't  need  a  steak  tied  right  to 
 it  you  can  see  the  graft  here  is  above 
 the  soil  level  which  is  perfect  I  can't 
 see  any  surface  roots  that  are  winding 
 around  itself  I  look  and  I  see  some 
 roots  coming  out  the  bottom  which  as 
 long  as  they're  not  big  and  old  looking 
 those  are  young  and  new  looking  that's 
 good  I  can  tell  that  when  I  take  this 
 out  of  the  container  it's  going  to  hold 
 together  I  can  mess  up  the  roots  a 
 little  bit  encouraging  it  to  root  out 
 into  the  native  soil  and  so  this  is  a 
 really  good  example  of  all  the  things  I 
 would  look  for  if  I'm  buying  a  tree  this 
 is  really  a  good 
 tree  we  would  dig  a  hole  that's  about 
 twice  the  size  of  the  container  and  make 
 sure  that  we  have  no  hard  pan  we  would 
 not  dig  it  deep  because  when  we  dig  it 
 deep  that  allows  for  settling  over  time 
 one  of  the  most  important  things  on 
 plants  and  trees  is  not  to  allow  them  to 
 settle  below  grade  where  water  can 
 collect  around  the  base  of  the  tree 
 right  here  so  we  want  to  plant  them  a 
 little  bit  High  to  where  this  root  ball 
 can  be  well  a  half  an  inch  to  an  inch 
 high  above  grade  some  are  tempted  to  dig 
 this  hole  and  then  put  brand  new 
 beautiful  soil  in  there  that's 
 completely  different  than  the  native 
 soil  I  don't  recommend  that  what  that 
 does  is  create  what  some  people  call 
 like  the  bathtub  effect  where  that  just 
 sits  there  and  Roots  won't  go  into  it 
 water  won't  go  out  of  it  we're  trying  to 
 get  this  tree  to  root  into  the  native 
 soil  and  the  best  way  to  do  that  is  by 
 using  native  soil  in  the  back  fill  and 
 then  trying  to  encourage  life  in  the 
 soil  to  proliferate  and  we  make  life 
 proliferate  by  using  our  combination  of 
 optimize  maximize  and  nourish  biosol 
 usually  we'll  build  a  basin  around  it  so 
 that  we  can  water  it  when  we  first  plant 
 it  it  needs  more  water  than  it  normally 
 would  need  during  that  time  of  the  year 
 and  usually  we'll  mulch  it  somewhere  in 
 there  we  will  take  this  steak  off  if 
 anyone  asks  you  what's  the  most 
 important  thing  in  staking  how  do  you 
 stake  a  tree  properly  the  most  important 
 factor  is  movement  so  we  want  to  stake 
 the  tree  so  that  it's  allowed  to  move 
 when  the  wind  blows  and  if  it  can  move 
 when  the  wind  blows  what  ends  up 
 happening  is  the  trunk  develops  tensil 
 strength  and  you  can  tell  if  a  trunk  has 
 tensil  strength  by  it  gets  wider  at  the 
 bottom  and  narrower  tapers  as  it  goes  up 
 and  if  you  get  a  lot  of  width  at  the 
 bottom  you  know  you  can  take  those  two 
 stakes  and  your  flexible  ties  off  and 
 you  have  a  tree  that  can  stand  alone  I 
 guess  very  similar  to  raising  kids  we 
 want  them  to  stand  on  their  own  but  not 
 the  kids  it  takes  more  than  2  years  with 
 the  tree  we  can  usually  do  it  in  a 
 couple  of  years  then  we  take  those 
 Stakes  off  and  we  have  a  straight  tree 
 that  can  move  in  the 
 wind  dwarf  gko  tree  wow  look  at  that  I 
 didn't  know  that  existed  so  I  see  dwarf 
 gko  and  I  didn't  know  there  was  a  dwarf 
 gko  so  I  look  it  up  on  my  phone  probably 
 first  and  see  what  it  said  and  so  I  try 
 to  gather  information  in  other  words 
 from  whatever  source  I  have  available  to 
 me  and  frequently  the  help  at  the 
 nursery  is  a  good  source  of  that  so 
 usually  I  would  combine  what  I  could 
 find  out  with  what  they  tell  me  and 
 decide  if  it  would  work  for  my  situation 
 but  that's  an  interesting  one  hi  there 
 good  how  are 
 you  Vicky  right  Diane  I'm  sorry  did  I 
 call  you  Vicky  last  time  I  saw  you  too 
 all  the  time  yeah  yeah  it's 
 Diane  so  this  is  a  Carolina  Cherry  a  lot 
 of  times  when  we  plant  trees  they're 
 inspected  by  old  municipalities  like 
 their  arborist  and  one  thing  they  will 
 look  for  is  a  rooting  like  this  this 
 kind  of  rooting  is  a  problem  so  we  don't 
 want  roots  that  are  growing  around  the 
 tree  we  want  the  roots  to  go  out  but  if 
 I  was  able  to  I'd  take  that  root  out  now 
 if  that  was  the  only  one  and  I  really 
 wanted  that  I  could  correct  that  and 
 plant  it  in  the  ground  but  if  I  could 
 find  one  that  didn't  have  rooting  like 
 that  then  I  would  buy  one  where  I  don't 
 see  that  kind  of  circular  surface 
 rooting  around  the  trunk  they've  got  a 
 great  section  here  full  of  grape  Vines 
 and  fruit  trees  and  uh  Citrus  and  other 
 types  of  fruit  trees  when  you  pick  out 
 fruit  trees  you're  looking  for  the  same 
 qualities  as  other  trees  and  you're 
 looking  at  the  roots  a  little  less  on 
 the  staking  because  a  lot  of  fruit  trees 
 you  keep  relatively  small  so  you  can 
 pick  them  so  you're  not  not  after  big 
 broads  spreading  trees  as  you  can  see 
 there's  so  many  varieties  so  mainly 
 you're  trying  to  get  knowledgeable  on 
 what  are  the  best  varieties  and  what  you 
 want  and  then  making  sure  they  look 
 healthy  these  all  look  healthy  you  can 
 see  the  Deep  green  color  that's  what 
 you're  looking  for  in  Citrus  they're  not 
 chlorotic  and  they're  showing  signs  of 
 New  Growth  that's  all  good  hard  to  find 
 a  dogwood  what  is  this  let's 
 see  Mountain  Moon  Dogwood  which  I  don't 
 I'm  not  familiar  with  mountain  moon  but 
 what  caught  my  eye  is  a  dogwood  in  a  5 
 gallon  and  you  can  see  nice  size  and  it 
 looks  really  good  chip  and  I  enjoyed 
 touring  Green  Hills  Nursery  we'd  like  to 
 thank  Green  Hills  Nursery  for  their 
 Hospitality  maybe  we'll  do  it  again 
 sometime  that  will  depend  on  your 
 reaction  if  you  like  it  there's  lots  of 
 things  to  talk  about  here  every  aisle  I 
 go  down  I  see  interesting  plants  but  I 
 kept  moving  today  because  we  kind  of  had 
 an  idea  of  just  doing  an  overview  of 
 buying  trees  and  planting  trees  and 
 staking  trees  but  let  us  know  if  uh  you 
 want  another  Nursery  Tour  and  we  thank 
 you  for  watching  this 
 one  let's  see  if  we  can  find  John 
 Buffs  probably 
 not  we  wanted  to  uh  see  if  we  could  find 
 oh  look  at  that  so  they  have  optimized 
 you  can  see  in  a  lot  of  different 
 sizes  hi 
 Lucia 
 good  how  are 
 you  and  my  friend  uh  Diane  who  I  thought 
 was  Vicky 
 Barry 
 but  but  we  got  it 
 [Music] 
 now

---

 a  good  time  to  show  you  in  this  yard 
 what  is  being  done  in  the  fall  and  the 
 winter  to  keep  it  looking  good  and  to 
 prepare  it  for  next  spring  this  one 
 happens  to  be  in  California  but  we  can 
 apply  it  to  Gardens  all  over  the 
 country  you've  probably  seen  on  our 
 Channel  this  yard  and  garden  which  we 
 showed  you  a  couple  months  back  probably 
 the  middle  of  the  summer  it  looked 
 terrible  even  though  it  was  nicely 
 designed  it  was  a  disaster  the  owners 
 were  convinced  nothing  would  grow  here 
 because  everything  had  died  and  a  lot  of 
 you  I  know  have  that  same 
 feeling  probably  the  main  uh  tip  would 
 be  recognize  the  change  in  temperatures 
 requires  you  change  how  you  water  and 
 the  sooner  you  do  that  the  better  you  go 
 from  Summer  where  you're  watering  a  lot 
 to  fall  in  Winter  where  you  shouldn't 
 water  much  and  it's  really  bad  for 
 plants  to  overwater  any  time  of  the  year 
 these  plants  in  many  cases  going  into 
 dorcy  and  the  soil  gets  cold  and  so  you 
 don't  need  to  water  usually  from  about 
 about  December  1  to  March  1  we  can 
 either  turn  off  the  water  or  have  it 
 come  on  just  once  a  week  like  for  a 
 minute  and  that  keeps  the  valves  working 
 opening  and  closing  and  so  you  don't 
 have  cracked  diaphragms  and  such  once 
 the  weather  warms  up  that's  in  our  area 
 completely  different  in  all  parts  of  the 
 country  depending  on  uh  what  your 
 weather  is  but  for  the  most  part  keep  in 
 mind  that  when  it  gets  cold  soil  is  cold 
 and  it's  not  active  and  plants  are  cold 
 and  they're  not  active 
 we're  here  on  the  day  that  uh  Enrique 
 their  Gardener  does  the  maintenance 
 Enrique  is  going  to  train  the  Wisteria 
 on  the  arbor  we  just  completed  that 
 about  8  months  ago  the  Wisteria  is 
 growing  but  it's  just  kind  of  growing  a 
 where  it  wants  to  grow  and  then  he's 
 deadheading  roses  we  still  have  a  lot  of 
 roses  blooming  as  you  can  see  fruit 
 trees  are  just  about  to  go  into  dormy 
 right  now  we're  doing  nothing  on  them 
 the  Deciduous  fruit  trees  but  they'll  be 
 pruned  in  the  winter  months  right  up 
 until  early  spring  other  than  that  the 
 landscape  is  young  enough  that  there's 
 not  a  lot  of  pruning  required  so  these 
 roses  that  are  really  visible  around  the 
 lawn  most  of  them  not  all  of  them  are 
 what  we  call  Landscape  roses  it  might  be 
 horrifying  sight  to  see  this  many  roses 
 landscape  roses  aren't  horrifying 
 because  they  don't  require  a  lot  of 
 Maintenance  and  you  don't  need  to  do  any 
 special  pruning  or  any  of  the  pruning 
 that  you  know  you  would  go  to  a  school 
 or  a  club  to  learn  about  pruning  is  just 
 kind  of  cutting  off  the  Dead  flowers  and 
 making  them  be  the  shape  and  the  size 
 you  want  them  to  be  let  me  take  the 
 wheat  out  hold  on  we  don't  want  to  see 
 no  wheat  as  so  right  now  we're  just 
 going  to  show  you  a  little  bit  about 
 these  ground  cool  ver  Roes  I'm  going  to 
 show  you  how  to  maintain  them  how  to  get 
 them  ready  for  winter  first  of  all  you 
 got  to  look  for  the  runners  right  big 
 Runners  like  these  ones  you  got  to  make 
 sure  you  cut  them  right  at  the  leave 
 right  there  make  sure  they're  not 
 overlapping  and  like  right  here  this  is 
 a  good  example  you  see  all  the  runners 
 right 
 here  they're  all  already  growing  on  top 
 of  this  one  in  between  of  it  you  don't 
 want  that  you  want  to  make  sure  you  have 
 a  nice  clean  area  around  it  so  that  way 
 they  look 
 nice  and  properly  maintained  these  ones 
 right  here  you  want  to  make  sure  you 
 keep  them  short  right  cuz  you  want  them 
 to  expand  and  spread  to  the  sides  but  we 
 don't  want  them  overcrowding  these  guys 
 right  here  and  of  course  you  see  any 
 dead  ones  cut  him  if  you're  able  to  see 
 you  got  new  growth  right  here  you  want 
 to  cut  them  cut  them  right  in  front  of 
 it  so  that  way  you  get  your  new  flowers 
 there 
 now  they  do  have  some  hybrid  tea  roses 
 here  those  require  a  different  kind  of 
 pruning  the  kind  of  pruning  you  would 
 take  a  class  to  learn  about  so  in  the 
 winter  here  in  Fresno  I  don't  like  to 
 prune  the  Roses  too  early  because 
 sometimes  we'll  have  a  few  days  of 
 unusually  warm  weather  and  if  you've 
 pruned  them  they  start  to  Bud  and  start 
 to  sprout  too  early  I  usually  do  the 
 pruning  more  in  January  and  February 
 right  before  the  weather  is  going  to 
 turn  warm  and  we  want  them  to  sprout  and 
 that's  also  when  I  would  use  blend  and 
 um  penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller  Enrique 
 hasn't  uh  done  anything  to  the  lawn  in  a 
 few  weeks  because  it's  a  hybrid  Bermuda 
 lawn  and  it  was  overseed  with  perennial 
 Ry  grass  and  that  is  only  necessary  if 
 you  have  some  kind  of  warm  seasoned 
 grass  and  you  want  it  to  look  green 
 through  the  winter  all  those  warm 
 seasoned  grasses  will  go  dormant  in  the 
 winter  because  of  cold  temperatures  they 
 don't  die  they  just  go  dormant  and  if  if 
 they  go  dormant  they  look  Brown  which 
 nothing  wrong  with  that  but  some  people 
 want  the  lawn  to  be  green  all  year  round 
 if  you  choose  to  not  overseed  then  what 
 is  needed  is  even  less  you  would  U  maybe 
 mow  it  once  as  it  turns  brown  and  that 
 way  it'll  look  neat  and  tidy  some  people 
 might  have  some  weeds  and  so  maybe  you 
 would  mow  it  once  a  month  or  something 
 if  you  have  some  weeds  growing  is  going 
 to  be  the  first  time  we  mow  cuz  we 
 overseed  about  3  weeks  ago  it's  about 
 the  right  time  and  after  that  if  it's 
 too  high  you  can  use  more  once  a  week 
 during  winter  time  sometimes  you  can  go 
 by  up  to  not  Mo  it  for  2  weeks  but  most 
 of  the  time  it's  once  a  week  makes  it 
 look  nice  nothing  looks  uneven  as  on  the 
 growth  of  the  lawn  and  of  course  helps 
 making  the  prop  look  nice  one  thing  in 
 our  climate  we  can  fertilize  because  we 
 have  warm  enough  weather  to  activate  the 
 fertilizer  there  are  active  campaigns 
 from  fertilizer  companies  to  get  you  to 
 fertilize  in  the  fall  and  even  early 
 winter  and  in  many  parts  of  the  country 
 I  I  think  that's  just  a  waste  of  money 
 and  not  productive  because  if  the  soil 
 is  dormant  and  the  plants  are  dormant 
 and  you  use  some  kind  of  fertilizer  when 
 you  get  moisture  it'll  break  down  that 
 fertilizer  and  that  fertilizer  will  want 
 to  leech  through  the  soil  without 
 anything  capturing  it  in  some  climates 
 like  this  especially  when  we  planted 
 this  lawn  when  Enrique  planted  the  seed 
 is  a  very  good  strategy 
 to  use  our  fertilizer  products  because 
 it  was  still  warm  enough  for  them  to 
 activate  they  helped  the  seed  germinate 
 and  then  they  feed  the  new  seedlings 
 once  they  do  germinate  house  has  this 
 beautiful  Arbor  that  flanks  the  pool  the 
 intent  of  the  design  was  to  have  a 
 Wisteria  growing  on  it  and  Wisteria  is  a 
 real  strong  growing  vine  so  if  you're 
 going  to  grow  wisteria  on  some  kind  of 
 overhead  structure  it  needs  to  be  a 
 really  sturdy  structure  we  did  this  the 
 beginning  of  this  year  probably  uh  late 
 spring  and  they've  grown  pretty  well  but 
 now  they  need  to  be  trained  because  they 
 don't  stick  to  a  post  they  kind  of  grow 
 around  it  and  Twine  around  it  and  you 
 need  to  give  it  some  help  so  we're  going 
 to  start  here  cuz  we  got  to  give  some 
 credit  to  John  cuz  he  already  fertilize 
 it  yeah  we  got  fertilized  right  here 
 it's  ready  to  fertilize  John  and  Bob's 
 doing  the  magic  what  we're  going  to  do 
 right  here  you  want  to  make  sure  you 
 leave  some  big  lines  bring  them  up  the 
 post  bring  them  straight  up 
 we'll  tie  them  up  there's  a  little 
 example  of  green  tape  right  here  how  is 
 it  done  that  tape  it's  meant  for  this 
 kind  of  stuff  you  know  stretches  with 
 the  plant  as  the  plant  grows  of  course 
 this  one  needs  a  little  bit  of  pruning 
 cuz  you  want  to  make  sure  you  got 
 straight  lines  not  Tangles  like  like 
 nuts  like  this  cuz  then  you  you  have  big 
 bunches  right  here  we  don't  want  that  we 
 want  this  guys  to  be  straight  on  the 
 post  and  then  spread  up  on  the  top  let 
 me  show  you  a  good  example  of  those  over 
 here  this  plant  right  here  I  prune  a  lot 
 of  it  from  the  footing  already 
 and  this  one  is  a  great  example  of  how 
 how  is  it  going  to  go  right  there  you 
 got  to  prune  the  bottom  of  it  so  that 
 way  the  plant  concentrates  the  growth 
 energy  to  the  top  and  not  on  the  bottom 
 if  you  look  up  there  you  see  all  the  new 
 stuff  growing  into  the  arbor  which 
 eventually  we're  hoping  for  this  whole 
 section  to  be  filled  up  with  with  steer 
 a 
 plant  this  will  probably  be  the  last 
 time  we  have  to  tie  it  cuz  Wisteria  is 
 going  to  go  dormant  and  then  we'll  let 
 it  grow  some  more  and  tie  it  again  in 
 the  the  months  to  come  I'd  say  in 
 another  2  years  I  think  we  might  be  able 
 to  get  it  to  cover  this  whole  Arbor 
 which  will  be  pretty  spectacular  if  you 
 keep  watching  we'll  show  you  when  that 
 happens  in  general  I  like  to  prune 
 deciduous  trees  after  they  drop  their 
 leaves  if  we  want  them  to  grow  more  if 
 we  want  them  to  grow  less  then  I  would 
 wait  until  they  sprout  all  their  leaves 
 in  the  spring  even  get  into  mid  spring 
 and  then  prune  them  because  by  doing 
 that  we're  kind  of  tricking  the  tree  and 
 controlling  growth  because  the  reason  it 
 puts  on  all  that  growth  in  the  spring 
 and  the  summer  is  to  feed  more  growth 
 through  photosynthesis  and  just  the 
 natural  growth  of  the  tree  and  if  we  cut 
 a  lot  of  that  growth  off  then  we're 
 controlling  its  ability  to  grow  more 
 they  have  a  lot  of  decidious  fruit  trees 
 here  and  they  have  a  lot  of  crepe 
 myrtles  and  they  have  flamethrower  cus 
 after  they  drop  their  leaves  in  the 
 winter  months  would  be  a  good  time  to 
 prune  them  because  they're  so  small  and 
 we  wouldn't  mind  if  they  got  a  little 
 bigger  since  they're  so  young  right  now 
 there's  not  much  to  do  with  it  but  you 
 definitely  want  to  go  around  and  look 
 for  suckers  which  are  always  at  the 
 bottom  of  the  trunk  like  these  ones  got 
 to  make  sure  you  cut  them  so  that  way 
 all  the  energy  of  the  tree  goes  up  to 
 the  branches  and  doesn't  waste  anything 
 on  the  bottom  you  can  go  around  kind  of 
 try  to  look  for  those  branches  that  are 
 you  know  crooked  bent  or  not  uh  growing 
 straight  clip  them  off  anything  that 
 it's  you  know  that  is  not  going  to 
 produce  fruit  like  this  these  ones  won't 
 produce  any  fruit  so  you  want  to  CLE  him 
 you  know  but  as  of  right  now  this  tree 
 doesn't  need  that  much  but  that's  what 
 we  usually  recommend  on  fruit  trees 
 going  around  looking  for  suckers  any 
 dead  branches  and  it  stuff  that  it's  not 
 growing  right  and  just  clip  him  for 
 citrus  I  like  to  do  not  much  we've 
 encouraged  them  during  the  year  to  be  as 
 healthy  as  possible  I'm  not  a  fan  of 
 covering  them  in  any  way  if  you're 
 growing  them  like  these  people  are 
 growing  them  it's  not  their  livelihood 
 what  you're  protecting  is  the  crop  not 
 the  tree  and  although  we  want  the  crop 
 it's  not  worth  the  trouble  of  building 
 structures  and  trying  to  cover  them 
 specially  I  try  to  address  that  by 
 getting  the  soil  as  healthy  as  possible 
 and  getting  the  plant  as  healthy  as 
 possible  and  then  usually  they'll  be 
 fine  and  the  crop  will  be  fine  but  if 
 the  crop  isn't  fine  at  least  the  tree 
 survives  and  you're  ready  for  next  year 
 to  kill  these  Citrus  we  would  need 
 incredibly  low  temperatures  like 
 historically  low  temperatures  almost  uh 
 not  going  to  happen  here  in  in  Fresno 
 probably  less  than 
 20°  so  blend  is  great  in  the  fall 
 because  we  think  we're  going  to  have 
 some  rain  and  that's  a  really  good  way 
 to  incorporate  it  the  only  thing  I  worry 
 about  using  blend  in  real  cold  weather 
 climates  is  it  has  fertilizer  in  it  and 
 so  you  might  not  be  getting  the  most  for 
 your  money  so  in  California  and  climate 
 similar  to  California  you  could  apply 
 blend  right  through  the  end  of  November 
 and  and  it's  a  good  use  of  the  product 
 in  areas  that  have  Colder  Weather  you 
 could  apply  blend  through  the  end  of 
 September  and  October  November  December 
 I  would  apply  only  optimize  and  those 
 will  both  give  you  really  good  values 
 hopefully  you  found  the  restoration  of 
 this  landscape  helpful  give  us  comments 
 if  you  have  questions  you  want  to  know 
 anything  about  maintenance  of  your  own 
 garden  let  us  know  and  we'd  be  happy  to 
 help  the  very  first  video  we  did  at  this 
 Garden  is  good  to  look  at  because  it's 
 quite  a  contrast  we're  pretty  pleased 
 with  the  progress  that  was  made  check 
 that  one  out  if  you  want  to  be  depressed 
 for  a  short  time  and  then  have  this 
 giant  massive  uplift  when  you  see  the 
 success  that  we've  been  able  to  have  and 
 that  that  is  possible  in  every  landscape 
 and  garden  if  you  recognize  the  power  of 
 soil  we  think  the  soil  was  a  big  part  of 
 it  plus  a  good  maintenance  regimen

---

 my  favorite  quote  from  Lawrence  Halprin 
 who  said  the  great  challenge  for  the 
 garden  designer  shouldn't  be  to  make  the 
 garden  natural  but  to  make  the  garden  so 
 the  people  in  it  will  feel  natural  I'm 
 John  Valentino  with  John  and  Bobs  I'm  a 
 landscape  architect  and  a  landscape 
 contractor  I'm  here  with  chip  Valentino 
 we're  at  this  Garden  that  we  just 
 finished  it's  a  highly  functional  Garden 
 that  features  no  lawn  in  the  front  and 
 very  water  conserving  plants  with  a  drip 
 irrigation  system  and  really  what  I  find 
 even  even  more  unique  about  it  is  the 
 way  it's  addressed  usable  spaces  and 
 making  the  landscape  as  functional  as 
 possible  and  as  contributory  as  possible 
 to  a  better  life  by  expanding  the  house 
 out  into  the  garden  this  Garden  was 
 skillfully  designed  by  my  partner  Bob 
 truel  Our  Hope  here  is  to  have  it  be 
 kind  of  a  inspiration  and  motivation  for 
 you  you  can  get  some  ideas  out  of  it 
 that  you  can  apply  to  your  own  garden 
 this  is  a  brand  new  Garden  this  house 
 was  just  built  you  can  see  the  entry  to 
 the  garage  here  and  then  the  planting 
 focuses  on  a  screen  where  the  neighbor 
 property  can  be  screened  using  privet 
 which  is  a  background  screening  shrub 
 white 
 Lantana  red  hesper  Alo  and  two  kinds  of 
 salvia  Salvia  Luca  and  Salvia  grei  we 
 have  the  same  types  of  planting  on  both 
 sides  of  the  driveway  and  then  those 
 plants  are  used  over  and  over  throughout 
 the  rest  of  the  garden  what  we  like  to 
 do  is  not  use  one  plant  here  and  one 
 plant  there  but  come  up  with  a  fairly 
 small  plant  pallet  and  then  use  it  in 
 bold  ways  when  you  Mass  plants  you 
 really  are  affording  yourself  a  a  real 
 look  into  their  beauty  because  when  they 
 bloom  they  bloom  all  together  and  uh  and 
 and  they  make  quite  an  impact  one  of  the 
 things  that  I  think  will  pay  off  in  the 
 years  to  come  you  can  see  these  are 
 small  Lots  with  big  houses  a  lot  of 
 times  I'm  mistakes  are  done  with  the 
 size  of  the  trees  and  here  we  used  very 
 small  trees  so  that  we're  not  going  to 
 have  any  problems  down  the  road  with 
 cracking  sidewalks  and  with  trees  that 
 get  too  close  to  the  house  and  spread 
 out  over  the  roof  and  all  of  that  in 
 this  case  we  use  the  Majestic  Beauty 
 Raphael  epis  either  you  think  of  it  as  a 
 large  shrub  or  a  very  small  tree  gets 
 about  10  to  15  ft  tall  and  grows  a 
 little  bit  like  a  lollipop  probably  the 
 most  interesting  feature  of  the  front 
 garden  is  the  front  Courtyard  which 
 connects  to  this  idea  of  making  it  as 
 useful  as  possible  in  addition  to  the 
 driveway  entrance  there's  another 
 entrance  here  from  the  street  that  takes 
 you  to  the  front  door  via  the  courtyard 
 the  courtyard  gate  hasn't  been  completed 
 yet  you  can  see  the  posts  which  are 
 right  now  longer  than  they're  going  to 
 be  this  wall  was  built  out  of  concrete 
 block  with  a  pre-cast  concrete  cap  it 
 was  plastered  and  painted  to  match  the 
 house  so  that  it  looks  like  an  extension 
 of  the  house  and  it  creates  a  nice  entry 
 and  a  nice  uh  place  here  with  a  fountain 
 surrounded  by  Nandina  and  blue  fescue 
 it's  really  a  neat  water  feature  from 
 Stone  Forest  you  can  go  online  and  they 
 have  a  lot  of  nice  products  lends  a  nice 
 sound  to  the  cor  is  also  very  attractive 
 and  natural  looking  this  is  going  to 
 have  some  outdoor  furniture  they've 
 lived  all  over  the  world  so  they  have 
 some  garden  ornaments  from  different 
 parts  of  the  world  the  planting  is  a 
 little  bit  different  here  you  can  use 
 things  that  require  a  little  bit  more 
 water  it  has  the  oak  leaf  hydrangeas 
 here  and  then  the  lonian  periz  the 
 botanical  name  sea  Lavender  is  the 
 common  name  so  we'll  walk  into  the  back 
 now  which  has  many  more  usable  spaces  it 
 backs  up  to  a  golf  course  all  of  these 
 houses  here  back  up  to  a  golf  course 
 this  is  the  service  part  of  the  yard 
 they  have  a  block  wall  that  separates 
 them  from  the  neighbors  areas  for 
 storing  garbage  and  all  of  the  pool 
 equipment  we  put  in  some  raised 
 vegetable  Planters  very  simple  ones  that 
 have  drip  irrigation  a  surface  made  out 
 of  anodized  aluminum  edging  and  PE 
 gravel  on  top  of  decomposed  Granite 
 makes  a  very  inexpensive  durable  clean 
 surface  you  could  use  just  a  decomposed 
 Granite  the  nice  thing  about  putting  the 
 PE  gravel  on  top  or  some  type  of  gravel 
 is  it  makes  it  a  little  cleaner  where  it 
 doesn't  track  we  don't  put  a  thick  layer 
 of  the  PE  gravel  and  and  that  way  it's 
 not  real  squishy  instead  it's  firm 
 almost  like  a  Paving  surface  the  fence 
 was  made  out  of  Cedar  and  then  stained  a 
 coffee  color  to  kind  of  go  with  the 
 color  of  the  block  wall  then  we  enter 
 into  the  garden  which  has  lots  of  stuff 
 going  on  they  do  have  small  lawns  in  the 
 back  for  P  it's  a  hybrid  Bermuda  lawn 
 very  tough  and  good  for  Fresno's  hot 
 summer  climate  the  trees  back  here  are 
 small  too  this  is  Eastern  red  bud 
 there's  an  outdoor  kitchen  with  a 
 granite  countertop  this  is  an  arbor  made 
 out  of  steel  that  has  some  nice  FX 
 lights  on  it  we'll  show  you  what  those 
 look  like  when  they're  on  the  arbor 
 defines  the  space  of  the  outdoor  kitchen 
 and  then  there's  Furniture  in  it  and 
 it's  directly  adjacent  to  a  pool  so  you 
 can  see  in  the  background  a  very  simple 
 elegant  pool  shape  and  that's  kind  of 
 where  you  start  is  with  the  pool  because 
 it  takes  up  the  most  amount  of  space  Bob 
 did  a  very  simple  pool  with  clean  lines 
 and  then  the  circulation  around  it  is 
 very  simple  and  clean  once  the  pool  is 
 designed  then  you  try  to  create 
 interactions  between  all  the  spaces  and 
 that's  accomplished  by  this  simple 
 circulation  and  then  what's  left  is 
 really  fairly  small  areas  for  planting 
 and  so  you  try  to  planted  in  ways  that 
 screen  the  fences  and  give  us  a  feeling 
 of  greenery  and  not  an  aid  landscape  as 
 you  walk  through  the  garden  there's  a 
 completely  different  type  of  outdoor 
 space  with  the  patio  and  some  plantings 
 and  garden  ornaments  that  they  got 
 mostly  from  Thailand  I  think  to  kind  of 
 tie  in  with  the  theme  we  used  this  nice 
 look  of  Mexican  Cobble  we  hand  placed 
 them  into  decomposed  Granite  one  ground 
 cover  is  Dand  d  ym  o  n  di  I  and  then 
 Asian  Jasmine  then  we  have  another  type 
 of  outdoor  seating  area  the  planting 
 here  again  is  more  white  Lantana  you  can 
 see  that  D  Olive  shrub  curves  around  and 
 is  a  mass  planting  that  will  provide 
 some  screen  of  the  neighbors  and  then 
 that  goes  into  a  real  big  screening 
 plant  the  Texas  privet  which  will  grow 
 to  to  almost  as  tall  as  you  want  it  and 
 so  we'll  have  a  background  screen 
 instead  of  looking  at  a  block  wall  we'll 
 be  looking  at  a  green  screen  of  Texas 
 privet  I  think  on  the  other  side  we  used 
 a  type  of  Carolina  Cherry  so  both  block 
 walls  are  screened  more  of  the  side  yard 
 which  has  another  hybrid  Bermuda  lawn 
 with  more  of  the  eastern  red  bud  trees 
 in  a  straight  line  we'll  be  pruning 
 these  up  so  you  can  walk  under  them 
 probably  when  they  sprout  next  here 
 will'll  prune  them  up  a  little  we  used 
 edging  around  each  tree  and  they're  all 
 lit  up  which  we  will  show  you  what  that 
 looks  like  you  can  see  we  use  this 
 anodized  aluminum  edging  to  define  the 
 hybrid  bermudan  and  to  make  it  so  when 
 the  lawn  is  maintained  these  clean  lines 
 are  maintained  if  you  don't  have 
 something  defining  the  edges  a  lot  of 
 times  it'll  end  up  curving  around  this 
 concrete  walk  goes  back  to  another  area 
 off  of  a  bedroom  the  lighting  at  night 
 looks  like  a  different  garden  and  it 
 really  is 
 magical  this  lighting  system  they're  LED 
 garden  lights  kind  of  a  contemporary 
 looking  very  distinctive  feature  for  all 
 the  path  lights  all  of  the  trees  we  lit 
 up  with  an  uplight  we  used  a  nice 
 fixture  in  the  arbor  to  light  up  with 
 kind  of  soft  garden  lighting  rather  than 
 something  like  a  harsh  110  volt  light  we 
 also  lit  up  these  water  displays  on  the 
 pool  by  getting  a  small  little  fixture 
 and  shining  it  in  that  direction  the 
 ornamentation  is  lit  the  trees  are  lit 
 up  the  outdoor  kitchen  is  lit  all  with 
 low  voltage  lighting  which  is  very  easy 
 to 
 install  okay  stay  down 
 Chip  he's  got  the  main  thing  is  I  would 
 hearken  back  to  what  we  were  talking 
 about  what  Lawrence  help  said  is  that 
 your  challenge  shouldn't  be  to  make  the 
 garden  natural  your  challenge  should  be 
 to  make  the  garden  so  the  people  in  it 
 will  feel  natural  that  is  speaking 
 directly  to  how  you  use  the  garden  it's 
 not  like  you  should  look  at  this  garden 
 and  say  we  want  it  just  like  that  this 
 is  specifically  designed  for  how  these 
 owners  use  the  garden  and  so  you  can 
 look  at  for  instance  how  that  little 
 strip  of  Mexican  Cobble  placed  in 
 decomposed  Granite  adds  a  nice  feature 
 and  that  might  be  some  you  use  in  your 
 garden  but  usually  you're  not  going  to 
 want  to  copy  a  garden  you're  going  to 
 want  to  think  about  how  you're  going  to 
 maintain  it  how  you're  going  to  use  it 
 what  your  favorite  plants  are  and 
 develop  your  own  program  of  features 
 that  the  garden  should  have  we're 
 constantly  installing  Gardens  and 
 designing  Gardens  and  we  have  the 
 opportunity  to  walk  through  them  and 
 show  them  to  you  if  that's  a  process  you 
 want  to  participate  in  make  sure  you 
 subscribe  tell  all  your  friends  to 
 subscribe  and  we  will  continue  making 
 videos  this  is  essentially  a  new 
 subdivision  with  not  the  greatest  soil  a 
 lot  of  it  is  fill  but  we  used  a  lot  of 
 our  blend  we  used  that  as  the  main  soil 
 amendment  we  didn't  till  it  in  or 
 anything  we  just  used  that  towards  the 
 end  in  the  top  1  in  or  so  of  the  soil 
 and  then  we  used  it  when  we  did  all  the 
 plantings  and  then  we  used  penetrate 
 liquid  bio  tiller  that's  a  liquid 
 product  and  that's  full  of  beneficial 
 bacteria  and  food  for  it  and  so  it's  a 
 good  way  to  start  the  process  of 
 building  life  in  the  soil  which  is  what 
 we  want  to  do  in  a  soil  like  this  that 
 isn't  the  greatest  is  kind  of  been 
 trampled  on  and  abused  no  one  was 
 thinking  about  the  soil  when  they  were 
 building  this  house

---



---

 failing  lawn  with  fungal  issues  in  the 
 middle  of  the  summer  to  a  thriving  lawn 
 in  early  mid  spring  we're  going  to  show 
 you  how  we  approach  it  about  6  weeks  ago 
 we  were  at  this  Garden  to  film  a  failing 
 lawn  it  had  some  fungal  issues  it  had 
 some  shade  issues  it  had  some  lack  of 
 water  issues  we've  had  some  dramatic 
 Improvement  but  it's  not  as  good  as  we 
 like  it  the  over  seating  is  going  to 
 make  it  look  good  immediately  as  soon  as 
 it  sprouts  and  then  we  Coast  through  the 
 easy  part  of  this  November  December 
 January  you  almost  don't  need  to  do 
 anything  you  don't  need  to  water  you 
 don't  need  to  worry  about  disease 
 usually  and  then  as  we  go  into  February 
 and  March  we're  going  to  kick  back  in 
 with  some  treatment  to  continue  the 
 recovery  I'm  John  Valentino  president  of 
 John  and  Bob's  Corporation  I'm  a 
 landscape  architect  and  a  landscape 
 contractor  for  about  45  years  now  and 
 this  is  my  vice  president  chip  Valentino 
 in  charge  of  fungal  disease  so  this  part 
 part  of  the  lawn  which  gets  plenty  of 
 Sun  we  have  this  Western  exposure  had  a 
 lot  of  these  little  small  areas  that 
 were  starting  to  turn  brown  you  can  see 
 lawn  growing  in  there  and  starting  to 
 fill  in  so  we're  making  progress  they're 
 almost  all  filled  in  it's  looking  much 
 much  better  the  biggest  issue  here  was  a 
 fungal  disease  problem  we  started 
 combating  that  with  beneficial  life  we 
 did  that  in  the  form  of  our  products 
 blend  and  penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller 
 trying  to  build  life  in  the  soil 
 beneficial  bacteria  beneficial  fungi 
 beneficial  fungi  is  way  stronger  than 
 the  bad  fungus  that  was  making  this 
 thing  look  lousy  so  that's  a  sustainable 
 way  to  treat  your  lawn  so  you  don't  have 
 these  problems  over  and  over  again  it 
 might  be  more  expensive  than  spraying  a 
 chemical  fungicide  but  it's  a  permanent 
 solution  with  a  chemical  fungicide  what 
 happens  is  you  kill  off  the  Bad  fungus 
 and  the  good  fungi  that  good  fungi 
 represents  your  only  hope  to  make  sure 
 you  don't  have  this  problem  every  year 
 so  what  we're  trying  to  do  is  come  up 
 with  a  sustainable  permanent  solution 
 and  we're  showing  you  that  in  process 
 here  you  can  see  in  the  areas  that  were 
 completely  bare  we're  making  some 
 progress  and  we've  got  a  little  bit  of 
 growth  in  these  areas  so  it  looks  a 
 little  bit  better  uh  as  we  get  more  warm 
 weather  next  year  we'll  be  able  to 
 completely  cover  this  up  for  now  Enrique 
 is  going  to  overseed  this  that'll  come 
 up  with  perennial  rye  it'll  look  great 
 for  the  winter  months  and  then  uh  next 
 spring  we'll  focus  on  getting  this 
 hybrid  Bermuda  to  take  off  and  fill 
 these  areas  in  so  the  shady  areas  on  the 
 north  side  of  all  this  fenia  and  uh 
 bradford  pears  and  boxwood  is  pretty 
 much  like  last  time  and  I  didn't  expect 
 much  change  we  can't  change  bermuda's 
 reaction  ction  to  shade  we  could  try  to 
 open  it  up  to  light  which  that  effort 
 hasn't  been  made  and  in  a  fairly  small 
 area  like  this  might  not  be  that 
 important  to  the  owner  probably  will 
 improve  a  little  with  the  over  seating 
 when  the  leaves  on  these  trees  drop  and 
 we  get  more  light  in  here  that's  why  the 
 overseed  does  better  than  the  Bermuda 
 because  we  end  up  with  more  light  on  the 
 north  side  of  these  trees  then  there  was 
 a  part  on  the  other  side  of  the  driveway 
 that  actually  was  being  underwatered 
 briefly  we  had  Brown  lawn  right  up 
 against  the  pavement  because  it  dried 
 out  that's  been  corrected  the  whole 
 thing  is  reasonably  green  now  this  whole 
 thing  will  be  over  seated  you  can  see 
 he's  mowed  a  little  bit  low  here  so  it's 
 not  tremendously  green  but  it's  healthy 
 it's  growing  fine  this  side  is  excellent 
 chip  likes  the  new  saw  yeah  go  to 
 it  if  you  want  to  see  how  we  diagnose 
 this  failing  lawn  check  out  our  first 
 video  at  this  site  and  it's  really 
 illustrative  of  how  you  go  about 
 understanding  problems  that  you  might 
 have  even  if  your  problem  isn't  exactly 
 the  same  as  this  problem  you'll  have  a 
 process  to  follow  to  figure  out  what  the 
 problem  is  why  your  lawn  looks  terrible 
 and  how  to  make  it  look  good  as  quickly 
 as  possible  so  after  about  6  weeks  we've 
 had  a  modest  Rec  maybe  a  little  more 
 than  modest  recovery  it  looks  pretty 
 darn  good  but  we  need  more  heat  to  get 
 this  Bermuda  to  really  start  to  cover  so 
 here's  the  strategy  Enrique's  going  to 
 overseed  with  perennial  rye  next  week 
 that's  going  to  come  up  quickly  that 
 comes  up  quickly  in  weather  like  this 
 highs  in  the  70s  and  80s  lows  in  about 
 50  that'll  pretty  much  jump  up  out  of 
 the  ground  and  it'll  make  this  lawn  look 
 great  the  lawn  will  look  great  until 
 next  spring  when  then  we  need  to  rely 
 back  on  the  hybrid  Bermuda  and  we're 
 going  to  be  aggressive  about  fertilizing 
 it  probably  with  our  nourished  biosol 
 Enrique  is  going  to  mow  once  a  week  and 
 mow  relatively  low  so  that  weeds  can't 
 grow  and  really  get  that  hybrid  Bermuda 
 lawn  to  out  compete  anything  so  with 
 healthy  soil  with  lawn  that's  fully  fed 
 our  plan  is  to  cover  up  the  rest  of 
 these  bare  areas  which  temporarily  will 
 be  covered  up  by  the  overseed  let  us 
 know  in  the  comments  if  you  want  to  see 
 specifically  how  we  will  be  overseeding 
 this  we  can  show  you  that  in  detail  so 
 if  you  have  a  warm  season  grass  like 
 hybrid  Bermuda  zoa  or  St  Augustine  you 
 really  want  to  overseed  in  order  for  the 
 lawn  to  look  as  green  as  possible  I 
 think  the  best  grass  to  overseed  with  is 
 perennial  rye  it's  a  very  nice  Lush 
 looking  lawn  it  comes  up  fast  it's  easy 
 to  care  for  if  you  have  a  cool  season 
 grass  you  could  still  overseed  with 
 peral  Rye  but  it  might  be  more 
 appropriate  to  overseed  with  whatever 
 type  of  cool  season  grass  you  want  to 
 proliferate  so  if  you  want  blue  grass  I 
 would  consider  over  seating  with 
 Bluegrass  if  you  want  some  type  of  tall 
 fescue  I  would  consider  overseeding  with 
 tall  fescue  both  of  those  are  slower  to 
 germinate  than  peral  Rye  but  they  get 
 along  better  sometimes  peral  Rye  can 
 compete  with  other  cool  season  grasses 
 to  where  you're  not  allowing  your 
 particular  cool  season  grass  to  flourish 
 but  on  almost  any  warm  season  grass  I 
 like  using  perennial  rye  we  hope  you 
 found  this  very  helpful  and  you  been 
 enlightened  on  ways  of  improving  your 
 lawn  and  making  it  function  and  look 
 exactly  like  you  want  it  also  if  you 
 want  to  see  how  over  seating  would  be 
 carried  out  and  the  steps  behind  it  let 
 us  know  I  was  driving  around  in  my 
 pickup  and  I  looked  over  and  I  noticed  I 
 had  a  little  bit  of  dirt  on  the 
 floorboard  in  the  passenger  side  and 
 some  seed  I  was  carrying  around  a  bag  of 
 peral  rice  seed  some  seed  had  spilled  on 
 the  floorboard  and  I  noticed  that  it  was 
 starting  to  germinate  so  if  I  can 
 germinate  pral  Ry  in  my  pickup  even 
 those  of  you  that  tell  me  that  you  have 
 a  brown  thumb  you  can  germinate 
 perennial  Ry  in  your  yard  uh  it'll  grow 
 in  a  pickup  it'll  grow  in  a  garden  it's 
 a  miracle  over  seed  grass  so  consider  it

---

 we're  standing  in  front  of  a  house  that 
 has  a  10,000  square  foot  backyard  lawn 
 and  we  were  hired  to  get  that  lawn 
 looking  good  for  tonight  when  they're 
 having  a 
 party  before  we  show  you  the  lawn  I'm 
 going  to  review  what  is  wrong  with  it 
 what  we  found  when  we  analyzed  it  and 
 that  just  required  looking  at  all  the 
 factors  took  about  10  to  15  minutes  and 
 we  did  that  about  2  months  ago  so  the 
 first  thing  was  to  try  to  figure  out  why 
 it  looked  terrible  there's  lots  of 
 possibil  ities  and  actually  they  were 
 told  a  lot  of  different  things  and  a  lot 
 of  different  ways  to  revive  it  when  we 
 looked  at  it  it  looked  like  it  needed 
 water  even  though  they  were  watering  it 
 regularly  it  wasn't  getting  sufficient 
 water  I  used  really  my  go-to  protocol 
 for  lawn  which  works  regardless  of 
 what's  wrong  with  it  not  enough  water  or 
 a  fungal  disease  proper  watering  proper 
 mowing  feed  that  soil  make  that  soil  as 
 healthy  as  possible  and  feed  the  lawn 
 and  then  let's  monitor  it  in  almost 
 every  lawn  that  is  struggling  weeds  are 
 going  to  be  a  problem  and  rather  than 
 address  that  first  I  really  like  to 
 address  that  last  because  proper  care  a 
 lot  of  times  will  minimize  that  problem 
 many  weeds  can't  take  regular  mowing  so 
 let's  go  back  there  and  see  how  we  did 
 fluttering  in  the  breeze  looks  pretty 
 neat  with  a  very  picturesque 
 [Music] 
 trunks 
 chip  it's 
 green  it's  10,000  square  ft  of 
 green  we  were  happy  to  be  a  part  of  uh 
 at  least  quickly  making  it  all  green  and 
 over  the  long  term  we'll  make  it  into  a 
 nice  lawn  and  we'll  talk  about  how  to  do 
 [Music] 
 that  what  is  that  that  crazy  hi  guy  I'm 
 the 
 GoPro  looks  quite  a  bit  better  we  now 
 have  you  know  no  bare  spots  everything's 
 green  it  is  a  lawn  with  a  lot  of  weeds 
 so  we'll  be  talking  to  the  owners  about 
 if  they  want  to  eradicate  the  weeds  he's 
 indicated  before  he  can't  tell  the  their 
 weeds  he  just  wanted  it  all  green  since 
 we've  fed  the  soil  and  we'  fed  the  lawn 
 and  we've  got  the  irrigation  working 
 properly  we  can  turn  this  into  an  all 
 Bermuda  lawn  which  from  a  purest 
 standpoint  I  would  prefer  because  it'll 
 have  just  one  color  right  now  we  kind  of 
 have  a  mish  mash  of  weeds  and  Bermuda 
 the  simplest  way  to  address  weeds  in  a 
 lawn  like  this  is  with  a  pre-emergent 
 herbicide  the  weeds  in  this  lawn  go  dorm 
 when  we  have  freezing  temperatures  or 
 almost  freezing  temperatures  next  year 
 when  spring  comes  it  comes  back  from  the 
 seed  so  what  we  would  do  to  combat  that 
 is  we  would  use  a  pre-emergent  herbicide 
 the  one  we  use  is  called  demension  and 
 we  apply  that  about  January  15th  you 
 want  to  do  that  when  it's  still  cold  but 
 just  before  it  starts  to  warm  up  and 
 it'll  prevent  weed  seed  from  germinating 
 and  all  you'll  be  left  with  is  the 
 Bermuda  or  whatever  type  of  grass  you 
 have  we  could  pretty  quickly  make  this 
 uh  a  lawn  with  no  weeds  or  very  few 
 weeds 
 by  uh  June  of  next  year  so  that  would  be 
 my 
 strategy  it's  up  to  the  owners  to  know 
 whether  they  want  to  do  that  or  they're 
 happy  with  this  improved  version  of  what 
 they  had  before  which  was  a  lot  of  dirt 
 mixed  in  with  some  weeds  so  my 
 recommendation  for  this  lawn  other  than 
 a  different  protocol  to  try  to  get  rid 
 of  weeds  is  repeat  and  repeat  we're 
 going  to  keep  doing  the  same  thing  we're 
 going  to  keep  monitoring  the  water  try 
 to  get  it  just  right  and  get  the 
 coverage  just  right  we're  going  to  keep 
 mowing  regularly  we're  going  to  keep  at 
 least  twice  a  year  feeding  the  soil  and 
 feeding  the  lawn  a  lot  of  products  that 
 you  buy  in  regular  garden  centers  only 
 feed  the  lawn  they  don't  feed  the  soil 
 we  believe  in  feeding  the  soil  because 
 it  will  prevent  the  lawn  from  having 
 this  kind  of  problem  in  the  future  it 
 will  be  the  source  of  sustenance  for  the 
 lawn  any  time  a  lawn  is  sick  or 
 underperforming  for  some  reason  then  I 
 would  use  blend  because  blend  has  lots 
 of  microbiology  in  it  if  the  lawn 
 doesn't  particularly  have  anything  wrong 
 with  it  just  doesn't  look  as  good  as 
 you'd  like  then  you  would  use  nourished 
 biosol  because  it's  nourished  biosol 
 that  has  macronutrients  in  it  that  lawn 
 really  craves  to  look  its  best  so  Chip's 
 filming  right  now  he  seems  to  like  the 
 outer  limits  of  the  property  we  hope  you 
 enjoyed  this  little  uh  tutorial  on  uh 
 diagnosing  lawn  now  we've  got  another 
 one  coming  up  there  was  an  interesting 
 contrast  to  this  one  where  it  was  a 
 fungal  disease  we'll  be  showing  you  the 
 after  of  that  in  a  week  or  two  so  keep 
 tuning  in  for 
 that 
 yeah

---

 Brendan  keeps  telling  me  it's  good  to 
 show  our  mistakes  well  we've  got  a 
 mistake  here  today  to  show  you  regarding 
 a  concrete  countertop  and  even  the 
 repair  of  the  concrete  countertop  didn't 
 go  as  we  planned  this  video  is  about 
 mistakes  to  avoid  if  you're  considering 
 a  concrete  countertop  especially  if 
 you're  considering  it  for  outdoors 
 at  this  project  we  did  a  concrete 
 countertop  in  this  outdoor  kitchen 
 behind  me  it  didn't  come  out  good  at  the 
 initial  installation  we  had  cracks  these 
 were  major  cracks  that  really  were 
 unacceptable  and  looked  terrible  we 
 showed  it  in  a  video  so  there's  a 
 complete  video  you  can  look  back  on  of 
 how  we  repaired  this  concrete  countertop 
 we  pleaded  that  in  late  summer  early 
 fall  we  did  nothing  through  the  winter 
 and  we  had  record  rainfall  here  lots  of 
 moisture  we  think  the  moisture  is  the 
 reason  that  the  cracks  even  though  we 
 had  repaired  them  in  ways  that  we  didn't 
 think  they  could  reappear  they 
 reappeared  and  bigger  and  uglier  than 
 ever  so  again  making  the  concrete 
 countertop  unacceptable  to  us  we  just 
 didn't  like  the  way  it  looked  owners 
 didn't  like  the  way  it  looked  so 
 we  agreed  to  completely  take  it  out 
 [Music] 
 is  relaxing  here  on  my  lap  he's  probably 
 difficult  to  see  he's  behind  the  table 
 here  and  I'm  John  Valentino  and 
 landscape  architect  and  a  landscape 
 contractor  we  didn't  really  identify 
 anything  that  we  had  done  wrong  so  it 
 was  hard  to  say  don't  do  this  or  don't 
 do  that  but  we  did  identify  things  that 
 we  could  do  differently  to  try  to  double 
 down  on  either  avoiding  cracks 
 preventing  cracks  or  making  it  so  if 
 they  did  occur  they  wouldn't  expand 
 we  used  way  more  rebar  in  the  second 
 time  we  formed  it  really  completely 
 differently  that  can  maybe  not  prevent 
 cracking  completely  but  it  can  prevent 
 the  cracking  from  becoming  a  problem  it 
 can  keep  the  cracks  more  manageable  and 
 small  we  entertained  possibilities  like 
 putting  in  joints  like  you  would  see  in 
 a  concrete  walk  where  you're  ordaining 
 where  you  want  the  crack  to  be  you  know 
 kind  of  admitting  you're  going  to  have  a 
 crack  but  here's  where  it's  going  to  be 
 and  there  are  some  systems  of  doing  that 
 that  don't  look  too  bad  but  we  ended  up 
 deciding  not  to  do  that  just  because  on 
 a  concrete  countertop  it  just  didn't 
 seem  like  what  we  wanted 
 entertain  the  possibility  of  using  fiber 
 in  the  mix  fiber  is  used  in  concrete 
 almost  like  a  substitute  for  rebar  it 
 holds  everything  together  and  binds  the 
 concrete  to  try  to  prevent  cracking  I 
 think  if  I  were  to  do  it  again  I  would 
 use  a  little  more  fiber  in  this  one 
 there  are  little  fibrous  hairs  that 
 become  visible  but  I  don't  think  that's 
 a  big  negative  and  I  think  it  helps 
 immensely 
 use  plenty  of  cement  in  the  mixture  we 
 entertain  the  possibility  of  some 
 different  mixes  we  ended  up  using  a  very 
 similar  mix  that  we  had  used  before 
 except  we  used  a  little  bit  more  cement 
 in  it  instead  of  a  six  sack  mix  we  used 
 a  six  and  a  half  sack  mix 
 we  also  had  more  cement  finishers  here 
 because  we  did  struggle  a  little  bit  the 
 first  time  with  it  setting  up  too  fast 
 and  we  struggled  to  finish  it  properly 
 this  time  we  had  five  guys  finishing  it 
 all  at  once 
 since  we  knew  a  big  problem  was  moisture 
 we  attempted  to  just  seal  everything  we 
 sealed  everything  underneath  all  the 
 concrete  everywhere  we  could  get  to  to 
 seal  we  put  two  or  three  coats  of  glaze 
 and  seal  so  a  good  concrete  sealer  and 
 then  we  did  the  same  on  the  Finish  we 
 applied  the  glaze  and  seal  only  early  in 
 the  morning  because  this  was  when  it  was 
 warm  it  was  about  June  only  one  coat 
 whereas  the  tendency  is  to  want  to  put 
 more  than  one  coat  in  one  day  and  finish 
 it  all  but  we  went  back  like  four  I 
 think  it  was  four  days  in  a  row  we  put 
 four  coats  on  top  of  the  glazing  seal 
 and  then  two  or  three  coats  all 
 underneath 
 we  still  did  not  eliminate  all  the 
 cracks  even  with  the  changes  but  they're 
 all  hairline  cracks  they're  much  smaller 
 than  the  first  time  around  one  of  the 
 problems  we  had  was  even  the  composite 
 kitchen  sink  they're  cracked  there  must 
 have  been  some  kind  of  settling  going  on 
 or  the  weight  of  the  concrete  so  we 
 replaced  that  with  a  stainless  steel 
 sink  we  also  put  a  glass  washer  in  a 
 glass  rinser  I  should  say  that  has 
 nothing  to  do  with  the  cracking  but 
 might  be  an  interesting  thing  to  see  the 
 only  thing  that's  still  up  in  the  air 
 that  we're  eager  to  see  is  does  the 
 increase  if  all  the  extra  rebar  we  put 
 in  and  the  extra  fiber  we  put  in  allow 
 this  to  hold  together  to  where  these 
 hairline  cracks  remain  hairline  cracks 
 the  simpler  it  can  be  and  the  smaller  it 
 can  be  I  think  the  better  chance  of 
 succeeding  outside  I  think  concrete 
 countertops  are  much  easier  to  pour 
 inside  we've  done  a  few  concrete 
 countertops  that  I  didn't  have  a  problem 
 with  but  this  one  is  by  far  the  biggest 
 and  the  most  complex  in  that  it  has 
 different  levels  and  I  think  that  leads 
 to  the  likelihood  of  cracks 
 the  other  thing  that  I  think  would  be 
 helpful  is  to  try  to  pour  it  during  a 
 moderate  time  of  the  year  in  terms  of 
 weather  we  ended  up  both  times  pouring 
 it  in  the  summer  close  to  100  degrees 
 and  part  of  it  would  get  real  hot 
 because  it  was  in  the  full  sun  and  then 
 part  of  it  would  stay  Shady  so  it  would 
 essentially  cure  or  dry  at  a  different 
 rate  that's  another  problem  for  cracking 
 the  patching  that  we  tried  that  we  did  a 
 whole  video  on  and  it  looked  like  it  was 
 going  to  be  successful  I  think  would  be 
 appropriate  inside  I  wouldn't  do  it 
 again  outside  thank  you  for  watching  our 
 mistake  video  If  you  find  this  video 
 valuable  hit  the  like  button  tell 
 everyone  you  know  to  subscribe  and  look 
 at  our  other  videos  we  also  have  some 
 good  design  ideas  that  will  help  you  be 
 creative  and  create  garden  spaces  that 
 improve  your  life  every  day  and  make 
 your  home  a  better  place  to  live

---

 here  we  believe  there's  a  fungal  problem 
 there's  also  a  shade  problem  in  part  of 
 it  and  then  there's  another  small  area 
 that  is  lack  of  water  that  happened  to 
 be  an  area  that  was  just  patched  with 
 sod  we  can  show  you  what  all  of  those 
 look  like  and  how  to  address  them  to 
 recover  as  quickly  as  possible  without 
 using  chemicals  as  you  know  I'm  not  a 
 big  fan  of  fungicides  we  think  the  way 
 to  improve  all  of  these  problems  is 
 through  soil  life 
 I'm  John  Valentino  landscape  architect 
 and  a  landscape  contractor  and  I'm  here 
 with  chip  Valentino  My  Assistant  who  is 
 tuned  into  these  Turf  problems  from 
 years  of  experience  and  then  Enrique  is 
 behind  us  and  he  does  the  maintenance  on 
 this  Garden  he's  the  one  that  called  me 
 to  help  him  solve  the  problems  because 
 this  has  always  looked  good  year  after 
 year  and  all  of  a  sudden  it  doesn't  look 
 good  and  they're  trying  to  figure  out 
 the  main  problem  I  think  is  a  fungal  one 
 and  yet  it  doesn't  scream  out  fungus 
 it's  hard  to  distinguish  between  lack  of 
 water  fungus  or  shade  it's  kind  of  like 
 from  elimination  that  I  arrived  at  a 
 fungal  problem  because  when  we  turn  on 
 the  irrigation  plenty  moist  everywhere 
 no  dry  spots  head-to-head  coverage  I 
 could  tell  it  wasn't  water  I  could  tell 
 that  it  wasn't  fertility  because  you  can 
 see  how  green  the  lawn  that  is  growing 
 we  check  exposure  adequate  sunlight  we 
 check  for  pests  then  we  eliminate  things 
 and  we're  left  in  this  case  with  a 
 fungal  disease  it's  kind  of  missing  that 
 that  pattern  that  you  usually  see  in 
 some  kind  of  fungal  disease  although  it 
 does  have  it  in  a  small  way  where 
 there's  all  these  little  spots  that 
 started  to  die  and  then  it  died  in 
 bigger  areas  we're  going  to  make  the 
 lawn  as  healthy  as  we  can  make  it  we're 
 going  to  make  the  soil  as  healthy  as  we 
 can  make  it  and  we  believe  that  the  best 
 way  to  defeat  a  fungal  disease  is  with 
 benefits  fungi  because  it's  that 
 beneficial  fungi  that  can  eat  the 
 offending  fungi  which  is  usually  weaker 
 than  these  good  fungi  that  we're  going 
 to  build  in  the  soil  this  house  has  a 
 West  exposure  and  that  West  exposure 
 allows  most  of  the  lawn  to  get  a  lot  of 
 sun  now  right  now  Chip  and  I  are 
 standing  on  the  very  north  side  of  a 
 hedge  of  photinia  and  olive  trees  and 
 Bradford  Pear  you  can  see  the  lawn  looks 
 bad  but  this  lawn  is  a  different  bad  you 
 can  see  it's  just  thin  everywhere  and 
 it's  the  characteristic  look  of  too  much 
 shade  and  Bermuda  will  not  Thrive  with 
 shade  there's  really  no  solution  other 
 than  you  could  really  try  to  thin  out 
 the  trees  and  let  in  more  light  or  you 
 could  change  the  type  of  lawn  sometimes 
 there's  an  attempt  but  with  highly 
 skilled  maintenance  people  that  have  a 
 lot  of  time  and  resources  you  could  seed 
 something  like  a  chewing's  fescue  in  the 
 Shady  part  which  is  a  Fescue  that  you 
 can  make  look  like  Bermuda  perfect 
 example  of  too  much  shade  Bermuda  won't 
 grow  in  too  much  shade  and  we  don't  have 
 a  lot  of  good  options  here  our  hope  is 
 to  get  the  rest  of  the  lawn  as  healthy 
 as  possible  and  that  we  wouldn't  mind 
 this  slight  Trail  off  in  Vitality  as  we 
 get  close  to  the  north  side 
 so  here  we're  at  the  same  landscape  on 
 the  other  side  of  the  driveway  directly 
 adjacent  to  the  driveway  which  tends  to 
 be  hot  and  hard  to  water  this  was  an 
 area  that  the  owner  patched  recently 
 they  bought  all  new  sod  and  so  about  a 
 week  and  a  half  ago  put  in  all  new  sod 
 that  looked  fantastic  when  I  see  dryness 
 right  next  to  the  hottest  part  of  the 
 yard  which  is  next  to  the  driveway  and 
 yet  green  Lush  growth  on  new  sod  away 
 from  the  hottest  part  I  immediately  know 
 that  that's  lack  of  water  it's  hard  to 
 put  in  new  sod  when  it's  105  and  not 
 have  some  drying  out  you  know  the  sod 
 all  its  roots  have  just  been  cut  off 
 it's  been  shipped  and  then  you  lay  it 
 out  and  you  have  to  be  watering  over 
 watering  really  for  the  first  day  or  two 
 well  this  I  can  tell  the  first  day  or 
 two  or  three  got  underwatered  and  so  we 
 we  ended  up  with  this  dryness  I  think 
 it'll  come  back  pretty  fast  as  long  as 
 it's  properly  watered 
 look  at  that  it's  rooted 
 rooted  pretty  good  and  I  think  it's 
 going  to  sprout  a  from  under  this 
 dryness 
 it's  going  to  sprout  I'm  pretty  sure  as 
 long  as  they  keep  watering  it  but  it  did 
 root  fast 
 the  nice  thing  I  like  about  using  our 
 products  to  treat  it  is  whether  it  was 
 lack  of  water  lack  of  fertility  fungal 
 issue  I  would  pretty  much  treat  it  the 
 same  way  we'd  use  a  lot  of  our  blend  and 
 we'd  use  a  lot  of  our  penetrate  liquid 
 bio  tiller  and  we'd  get  the  lawn  and  the 
 soil  as  healthy  as  possible  so  this  is  a 
 40  pound  bag 
 and  we  used  on  this  lawn  which  is  about 
 3  300  3400  square  feet  we  used  two  of 
 these  so  that's  a  very  heavy  application 
 of  blend  20  pounds  per  thousand  is 
 pretty  heavy  if  I  know  I  have  fungal 
 problems  I'll  probably  go  25  30  pounds 
 per  thousand  so  I  like  to  just  throw  it 
 on  like  this 
 so  blend  is  a  proportional  mixture  one 
 part  optimized  two  parts  nourish  biosol 
 three  parts  maximized  optimize  is 
 like  concentrated  organic  matter  and 
 that  really  is  a  long-term  type  thing  it 
 breaks  down  slowly  and  it  attracts  all 
 the  beneficial  life  we  want  to  attract 
 but  over  the  long  term  then  the 
 nourished  bowel  is  a  really  good 
 fertilizer  made  from  the  bloom  of 
 cultured  soybean  and  cottonseed  meal 
 that  bloom  is  really  good  at  attracting 
 and  feeding  beneficial  soil  life  and 
 then  the  maximize  that's  the  one  that 
 actually  has  soil  life  in  it  it  has 
 beneficial  bacteria  and  fungi  including 
 the  most  famous  fungi  mycorrhizae  and  it 
 has  a  lot  of  minerals  in  the  form  of 
 ground  up  Basalt  from  old  lava  deposits 
 when  you  put  all  those  together  you've 
 got  a  tremendous  soil  Builder  so  we're 
 throwing  it  on  here  I  don't  usually 
 throw  it  on  with  the  chip  behind  me  but 
 it  is  very  safe  for  pets  and  for  kids 
 you  see  some  dust  I'd  want  to  keep  the 
 dust  away  from  them  so  the  penetrate 
 liquid  bio  tiller  has  two  bottles 
 because  we  want  to  keep  them  separate 
 one  is  the  beneficial  bacteria  and  the 
 other  is  the  food  for  the  bacteria 
 this  is  a  backpack  sprayer  holds  about 
 four  gallons  of  water  I'm  gonna  put 
 about  three  or  four  gallons  of  water  in 
 it  and  it  doesn't  matter  how  much  water 
 you  use  water  is  just  a  carrier  to  get 
 this  product  spread 
 you  see  a  host  bib  anywhere  so  what  I  do 
 just  to  make  it  faster  I  take  off  the 
 nozzle  and  I  just  kind  of  fling  it 
 around  and  it's  not  even  obviously  but 
 it's  this  isn't  like  fertilizer  we  just 
 want  to  get  all  of  this  product  in  the 
 area  that  we  want  it  and  then  you  know 
 through  water  and  stuff  it'll  spread  out 
 if  I  see  a  particular  spot  that  I  think 
 needs  help  I  could  focus  on  that  but 
 mostly  I'm  just  going  to  fling  it  around 
 and  try  not  to  hit  chip  at  all  we've 
 talked  about  and  shown  you  how  we 
 applied  the  products  to  treat  this  lawn 
 with  fungal  disease  and  if  you  want  to 
 follow  its  progress  subscribe  to  the 
 channel  we're  going  to  be  monitoring  it 
 and  probably  film  it  every  couple  of 
 weeks  and  see  how  fast  it  recovers

---

 chip  and  I  are  here  at  this  honor  design 
 Garden 
 [Music] 
 so  the  entrance  is  the  new  large 
 stepping  stones  that  take  us  to  the 
 front  gate  with  fruitless  olives  that 
 Branch  out  over  this  walk  eventually 
 creating  a  cool  entrance  to  this 
 Courtyard  area  for  right  now  they're  not 
 real  big  and  so  this  is  about  as  large 
 as  we  can  get  them  at  a  reasonable  cost 
 both  sides  of  the  main  entrance  look 
 similar  those  are  not  walking  paths 
 those  are  more  variations  in  texture  and 
 color  that  can  look  stream  or  water  like 
 and  they  go  throughout  the  garden  and 
 provide  some  relief  once  the  ground 
 cover  grows  in  I  think  that'll  be  more 
 effective  and  that  same  ground  cover 
 we're  growing  in  between 
 these  large  Stepping  Stones 
 this  Garden  is  a  total  remodel  of  a 
 garden  that  was  originally  done  in  the 
 60s  when  the  house  was  built  you'll 
 recognize  how  it  looked  just  a  big  lawn 
 and  then  foundation  planting  so  plants 
 up  against  the  house  really  no  thought 
 put  to  making  it  useful  owner  wanted  to 
 get  away  from  that  and  do  something  that 
 was  more  contemporary  and  address  the 
 needs  one  of  the  needs  is  this  faces 
 South  and  it  gets  just  baked  in  the 
 summer  and  so  they  wanted  large  trees 
 that  would  shade  the  house  over  time  and 
 then  they  wanted  to  grow  vegetables  in  a 
 garden  without  the  whole  yard  looking 
 like  a  vegetable  garden  and  they  also 
 wanted  it  to  be  low  water  using  and  so 
 they  wanted  a  plant  pallet  of  completely 
 low  water  using  plants  so  this  is  really 
 a  favorite  of  mine  that  I  had  a  hard 
 time  finding  so  I  ordered  them  myself 
 from  The  Grove  this  one  is  called  Mirage 
 blue  and  it's  Salvia  greggii  Mirage  blue 
 and  it  does  better  than  most  salvias  I 
 plant  in  that  the  leaves  stay  Lush  it 
 doesn't  get  real  big  it  stays  low  blooms 
 like  crazy  all  the  time  except  in  the 
 middle  of  the  winter  and  has  a  really 
 nice  looking  Vivid  Bloom  where  some  of 
 them  are  more  dreary  in  their  Bloom  this 
 is  Mirage  purple  and  you  can  see  it's 
 just  a  slightly  different  Hue  to  it  it 
 is  more  Violet  in  the  Mirage  blue  is 
 still  looks  purple  but  these  will  look  a 
 lot  more  impressive  once  they've  been  in 
 the  ground  a  year  or  so  here's  a  plant 
 that  isn't  doing  as  well  as  I'd  like 
 it's  a  Japanese  grass  which  I  think 
 would  look  great  here  over  this  Cobble 
 we  just  have  Cobble  at  the  entrance  but 
 it's  burning  and  it's  getting  too  much 
 sun  I  might  replace  it  with  something 
 else  or  we  might  see  it  improve 
 dramatically  when  we  get  into  September 
 so  I'm  kind  of  waiting  to  see  what's 
 going  to  happen  with  it  if  I  replace  it 
 I'm  thinking  of  replacing  it  with 
 dianella  which  is  a  grass  that  I  think 
 would  look  neat  here  in  low  water  using 
 and  has  a  nice  Bloom  on  it  this  Cobble 
 we  just  set  on  decomposed  granite  and 
 then  we  put  sand  in  between  these 
 butterfly  bush  were  planted  then  amongst 
 the  Cobble  and  that's  a  nice  look  here 
 at  the  entrance  the  plumbago  is  blooming 
 nicely 
 these  are  some  of  those  transplanted 
 roses  mixed  in  with  our  ice  cap  roses 
 which  is  a  dwarf  Iceberg  the  ground 
 cover  is  spreading  and  I  think  we  might 
 get 
 pretty  good  coverage  by  the  end  of  the 
 summer  so  this  was  a  lawn  it  was  a 
 Bermuda  lawn  and  so  we  killed  the 
 Bermuda  two  or  three  times  and  we've 
 pretty  much  gotten  rid  of  it  I  can  see  a 
 spot  right  here  at  this  entrance  this  is 
 the  Bermuda  re-emerging  and  if  you  don't 
 do  anything  about  it 
 it'll  re-establish  and  grow  everywhere 
 you  can  probably  pull  it  out  and  get  the 
 root  and  so  you  don't  need  to  spray  it 
 you  could  just  pull  it  out  you're 
 looking  for  things  like  this  so  that  it 
 doesn't  make  get  mixed  in  with  the  new 
 ground  cover  the  trees  that  we  used  here 
 are  Keith  Davey  Chinese  pistache  which 
 is  Chinese  pistachi  that's  grafted  and 
 so  that  it  doesn't  have  berries  and 
 guarantees  the  fall  color  spectacular 
 fall  color  a  large  Southern  Live  Oak 
 then  we  use  the  fruitless  olives  lining 
 the  wok  and  then  we  used  multi-trunk 
 Natchez  crape  myrtle  you'll  see  three  of 
 them  the  other  thing  about  establishing 
 this  Garden  is  we  planted  it  in  June  and 
 it  was  very  hot  it  was  100  degrees  when 
 we  planted  it  and  so  we  watered  every 
 day  and  now  slowly  we're  toning  down 
 that  watering  and  we're  down  to  every 
 other  day  probably  in  another  couple  of 
 weeks  be  every  third  or  fourth  day  but 
 we're  watering  less  and  less  and  it's  a 
 drip  system  so  you  don't  see  any 
 sprinklers  the  plants  are  either  watered 
 it's  individual  emitters  or  we  have  the 
 rows  of  tubing  with  the  emitters  built 
 in  where  we  want  ground  cover  to  fill  in 
 the  soil  is  one  of  the  most  important 
 parts  of  this  garden  and  we  did  some 
 abuse  of  the  soil  in  the  beginning 
 because  we  had  to  kill  the  Bermuda  all 
 of  the  garden  we  amended  with  our  blend 
 at  a  heavy  rate  about  20  pounds  per 
 thousand  and  then  during  the  planting 
 process  we  used  our  penetrate  liquid 
 biotiller  it's  kind  of  like  a  liquid 
 organic  matter  and  you  can  see  the 
 plants  are  doing  well  it's  now  turning 
 into  excellent  soil  and  especially  if 
 every  six  months  to  a  year  or  so  we  make 
 a  reapplication  of  the  blend  it  will 
 really  be  good  soil  after  a  couple  of 
 years  a  big  part  that  we're  facing  here 
 is  a  courtyard  was  created  which  is  a 
 nice  part  of  a  front  garden  to  make  it 
 more  useful  and  the  courtyard  is  defined 
 by  this  new  fence  which  we  installed  and 
 painted  a  color  called  Dragon's  Breath 
 this  has  a  large  expanse  of  Paving  which 
 is  broken  up  with  ground  cover  growing 
 in  between  it  eventually  that  ground 
 cover  will  be  solid  so  it'll  just  look 
 like  green  and  concrete  there's  a  gate 
 that  goes  to  the  driveway  and  then  this 
 way  goes  to  a  future  Garden  area  so  the 
 nature  of  the  plants  is  different  on  the 
 interior  Courtyard  an  idea  that  I  like 
 even  in  xeriscape  gardens  in  the  entries 
 and  in  close-up  areas  you  can  have 
 plants  that  require  more  water  and  or 
 Lusher  so  the  idea  of  the  courtyard  is 
 it  will  have  things  like  Japanese  maples 
 and  Eastern  Redbud  Lambs  Ear  and 
 variegated  liriope  and 
 special  dwarf  Nandina  the  smoked  Bush 
 which  is  the  dwarf  smoke  bush  one  of  the 
 things  here  is  because  of  budget  a  lot 
 of  the  final  parts  of  the  garden  aren't 
 completed  yet  because  they're  going  to 
 be  doing  them  later  one  thing  that  you 
 see  a  big  box  in  the  courtyard  is  a 
 fountain  they  purchased  the  fountain 
 after  because  of  cost  and  then  we  just 
 ran  water  and  power  to  the  area  so 
 that's  waiting  to  be  installed  the  other 
 thing  that  you'll  see  throughout  the 
 garden  that  was  a  cost  saving  measure  is 
 these  little  Loops  of  wire  which  is 
 where  low  voltage  LED  garden  lights  are 
 going  to  be  going  so  that's  a  way  to 
 save  money  where  they're  not  going  to 
 purchase  the  lights  and  install  the 
 lights  until  later  maybe  a  year  or  two 
 down  the  road  so  this  area  is  decomposed 
 Granite  because  it's  going  to  be  three 
 or  four  raised  planters  for  vegetables 
 and  the  planting  idea  is  these  shrubs 
 which  look  small  right  now  they'll  grow 
 together  be  an  informal  hedge  that  will 
 be  about  six  feet  tall  that  will  screen 
 the  view  of  the  vegetable  garden  from 
 the  street  but  because  of  this  exposure 
 we'll  get  a  lot  of  sun  and  it'll  be  a 
 good  spot  to  grow  vegetables 
 we  walk  in  this  area  and  it  takes  us  to 
 the  side  yard  which  we  built  a  fence  to 
 screen  the  neighbors  and  planted  three 
 dwarf  Citrus  which  will  fill  this  area 
 in  and  provide  kind  of  a  nice  view  they 
 use  some  of  these  windows  as  an  office 
 and  they'll  look  out  into  the  Citrus  and 
 then  on  the  other  side  of  the  driveway 
 we  just  did  quite  a  bit  of  the  3  8 
 California  gold  gravel  and  then  just 
 some  simple  plantings  again  with  the 
 drip  irrigation  and 
 that's  pretty  much  a  tour  of  this  little 
 remodel  of  a  front  yard  that  used  to  be 
 a  very  traditional  60s  style  and  now  a 
 more  modern  useful  interesting  Garden 
 that  saves  water  it  Shades  the  house  it 
 creates  a  front  useful  Courtyard  so  a 
 much  more  useful 
 life  enhancing  Garden  rather  than 
 something  you  just  walk  through  to  get 
 to  the  front  door  and  all  designed  as  I 
 said  by  the  owner  just  with  our  input 
 here  and  there  to  help  her  with  some 
 plant  selections  but  a  nice  job  by  her 
 to  come  up  with  something  that  really 
 reflects  her  taste  and  the  way  they 
 intend  to  use  the  garden  if  you  like 
 these  garden  tours  let  us  know  and  we'll 
 do  some  more 
 foreign 
 foreign

---

 chip  and  I  are  here  at  this  low 
 maintenance  Garden  that  we  completed 
 about  seven  years  ago  it's  worked  out 
 very  well  as  a  low  maintenance  garden 
 and  so  we're  going  to  tell  you  what  went 
 into  its  planning  and  its  construction 
 and  why  it  continues  to  be  low 
 maintenance 
 lots  of  customers  say  to  me  they're 
 number  one  or  two  priority  is  low 
 maintenance  but  then  they  go  through 
 this  list  of  things  they  want  and  the 
 result  is  not  a  low  maintenance  Garden 
 one  of  the  best  ways  to  minimize 
 maintenance  is  to  not  have  a  lawn  a 
 small  garden  like  this  the  lawn  would 
 just  be  something  to  look  at  so  it 
 doesn't  make  sense  to  have  a  lawn  here 
 if  you  really  want  certain  plants  but 
 they  take  shade  but  you  plant  them  in 
 the  Sun  and  you  think  you  can  make  them 
 grow  you  probably  can  make  them  grow  but 
 takes  more  water  every  time  you  use  more 
 water  in  a  garden  that's  higher 
 maintenance  because  you  have  more  weeds 
 you  have  more  chance  of  diseases  and 
 fungal  diseases  of  all  kinds  when  we 
 limit  water  we  limit  maintenance  in  this 
 Garden  we've  limited  water  through  the 
 plant  pallet  and  the  design 
 it  sounds  bad  to  say  most  of  the  garden 
 is  concrete  but  most  of  this  front 
 garden  is  concrete  because  it's  one  big 
 Courtyard  surrounded  by  planting  I  think 
 the  the  very  essence  of  the  design  is 
 one  way  to  limit  maintenance  we  did  it 
 in  a  way  where  it  doesn't  look  arid  and 
 it  doesn't  look  like 
 we  have  a  concrete  Garden  the  paving  is 
 useful  functional  it's  not  only  the  walk 
 to  the  front  door  it  expands  out  into  an 
 area  you  can  sit  around  the  tree  chip 
 and  I  like  to  sit  on  it  and  uh  wave  to 
 our  neighbors  as  they  go  by  you  can 
 enjoy  the  fountain  you  can  wait  for 
 friends  talk  to  neighbors  it's  useful 
 and  at  the  same  time  it's  extremely  low 
 maintenance 
 you  want  to  limit  the  number  of  plants 
 the  number  and  size  of  trees  the  plant 
 palette  here  is  the  olives  in  this  case 
 we  used  just  four  fruitless  olives  in  a 
 multi-fashion  so  very  low  maintenance 
 appropriate  for  this  small  garden  not 
 going  to  get  too  big  and  not  going  to 
 envelop  the  house  and  overpower  anything 
 not  going  to  crack  sidewalk  blue  glow 
 Agave  a  lot  of  agave  would  be  too  big 
 for  this  site  at  seven  years  old  they 
 don't  really  get  any  bigger  than  this  so 
 it's  a  dwarf  Agave  Little  John 
 bottlebrush  which  we  used  as  an  informal 
 hedge  you  can  see  those  were  planted 
 pretty  close  together  and  they're  just 
 growing  together  to  create  a  separation 
 between  the  courtyard  and  the  street  on 
 the  other  side  of  the  driveway  they  used 
 Skyrocket  Juniper  as  a  screen  and  then 
 some  daylilies  a  little  bit  of  Blue 
 Fescue  so  a  simple  plant  palette  all 
 easy  to  grow  and  not  big  and  low  water 
 use 
 almost  every  normal  sized  tree  meaning 
 25  feet  tall  and  wide  or  bigger  is  too 
 big  for  a  site  like  this  a  real  common 
 one  I  see  is  camphor  you  know  that's  a 
 park  tree  Chinese  Elm  all  the  Oaks  even 
 Chinese  stash  which  is  well  behaved 
 probably  too  big  for  a  site  like  this  in 
 addition  to  these  fruitless  olives  other 
 small  patio  scale  trees  are  appropriate 
 that  won't  get  too  big  for  this  small 
 little  site  eastern  redbud  or  Western 
 Red  Bud  a  lot  of  varieties  of  sources 
 the  other  thing  you'll  see  in  the 
 backyard  are  large  shrubs  pruned  into 
 trees 
 the  great  challenge  for  the  garden 
 designer  shouldn't  be  to  make  the  garden 
 natural  but  to  make  the  garden  so  the 
 people  in  it  will  feel  natural 
 I'm  a  big  fan  of  creating  spaces  and 
 that's  what  landscape  design  landscape 
 architecture  is  all  about  creating  space 
 we  have  these  separate  rooms  and  it's 
 really  an  extension  of  the  house  you  can 
 see  one  I'm  looking  at  right  here  that 
 has  seating  and  shade  and  surrounded  by 
 Japanese  blueberry  and  it  has  a  certain 
 type  of  Paving  a  flagstone  with  bands  of 
 colored  concrete  and  then  that  Paving 
 style  changes  as  the  room  changes  we  get 
 into  a  different  room  with  a  more  of  a 
 formal  sit-down  type  table  and  this 
 pattern  of  Mexican  Cobble  in  concrete 
 great  example  of  combining  low 
 maintenance  by  the  very  nature  of  a 
 design  again  it  has  a  lot  of  Paving  but 
 it  doesn't  strike  you  as  arid  because 
 it's  surrounded  by  trees  of  all  kinds 
 and  plants  and  lots  of  pots  about  a  year 
 ago  we  placed  a  screening  shrub  back 
 there  with  little  Ollie  so  we're  waiting 
 for  that  to  grow  to  cover  that  wall  we 
 have  a  nice  large  pot  with  a  kumquat 
 that's  viewable  from  inside  the  house 
 and  all  the  trees  throughout  the  garden 
 are  the  same  it's  a  variety  of  bay 
 called  Saratoga  so  here's  our  Japanese 
 maple  pruned  on  a  regular  basis  you  can 
 go  back  to  our  video  that  we  did  on 
 pruning  a  Japanese  maple  and  it's 
 exactly  like  that  that's  exactly  how  we 
 prune  this  one  and  by  pruning  it 
 frequently  like  every  six  months  or  so 
 you  can  keep  it  looking  like  this 
 the  maintenance  on  all  of  these  plants 
 is  minimal  the  olives  in  order  to 
 maintain  the  look  need  to  be  thinned  now 
 and  then  Little  John  bottle  brush  is 
 probably  the  only  one  that  needs  a 
 little  bit  of  pruning  to  keep  it  about 
 at  this  height  it  wants  to  be  just  a 
 little  bigger  than  this  on  the  other 
 side  of  the  driveway  they  used  Skyrocket 
 Juniper  as  a  screen  and  I  see  they  prune 
 the  top  of  it  but  it  doesn't  really  need 
 to  be  pruned  other  than  that  there  isn't 
 any  other  pruning 
 in  this  Garden  there's  not  much  of  a 
 problem  with  weeds  and  we  think  a  lot  of 
 the  reason  is  a  constant  about  two  inch 
 layer  of  mulch  that's  retained  or 
 maintained  here  we've  used  the  double 
 ground  shredded  Cedar  which  I  like  as  a 
 as  a  mulch  that  stays  put  if  you  have  a 
 gardener  a  lot  of  mulches  will  just  blow 
 away  whereas  this  kind  of  you  can  see  it 
 kind  of  cements  together  and  and  stays 
 put  well 
 I'm  a  big  proponent  of  mulch  and  a  big 
 proponent  of  using  our  products  or 
 anyone's  products  that  will  improve  life 
 in  the  soil  which  we've  done  here  when 
 we  planted  it  but  in  addition  to  that 
 the  really  important  part  is  to  make 
 that  an  ongoing  process  every  year  use 
 some  kind  of  input  to  improve  the  soil 
 and  that  combination  of  healthy  soil  and 
 mulch  going  to  make  it  so  you  don't  have 
 to  do  anything  to  your  plants  they  don't 
 get  pests  and  disease  you  don't  have  to 
 worry  about  weeds  so  that's  an  important 
 part  of  a  low  maintenance  Garden 
 I  just  throw  it  on  by  hand  and  you  know 
 maybe  a  handful  for  small  plants  and  two 
 or  three  handfuls  for  big  plants  this  is 
 such  a  small  planting  area  I  just 
 completely  cover  all  the  soil  because 
 there's  pretty  much  roots  that  go 
 everywhere  it's  simple  it's  easy  it's 
 economical  it  makes  a  lot  of  sense  chip 
 and  I  really  like  this  yard  it's 
 attractive  it's  interactive  it  enhances 
 the  house  it's  a  really  neat  yard  and 
 what  a  neat  yard  requires  is  planning 
 but  you  need  to  plan  this  out  and  it'll 
 pay  dividends  for  many  many  years  after 
 that  this  was  planned  about  eight  years 
 ago  and  installed  seven  years  ago  it's 
 done  very  well  with  a  minimal  amount  of 
 problems  and  a  minimal  amount  of  upkeep 
 just  some  basic  things  which  we  just 
 reviewed  we  thank  you  for  watching  tell 
 everyone  you  know  about  these  videos  if 
 you  find  them  helpful  and  make  sure  they 
 all  subscribe

---

 so  the  reason  this  qualifies  is  quirky 
 is  because  it's  extremely  simple  there's 
 not  the  kind  of  every  embellishment  that 
 you  could  choose  in  a  garden  so  it's 
 just  relies  completely  on  very  simple 
 materials  decomposed  Granite  simple 
 irrigation  and  fruit  trees  that  are 
 going  to  bear  fruit  like  crazy 
 we're  timing  the  irrigation  system  right 
 now  to  try  to  get  the  optimal  amount  of 
 water  to  fill  up  these  basins  properly 
 and  give  a  good  deep  soaking  we  started 
 at  708  and  we'll  see  how  long  it  takes 
 these  bubblers  to  fill  up  the  basins 
 the  owners  ended  up  designing  it  and 
 siding  the  trees  and  the  idea  is  when 
 they're  big  you  kind  of  wander  around 
 the  orchard  somewhat  aimlessly  enjoying 
 the  fact  that  you're  in  an  orchard  even 
 though  you're  in  a  small  backyard  but 
 it'll  give  the  feeling  of  being  more 
 expansive  and  give  you  the  feeling  that 
 you  have  when  you  are  in  an  actual 
 Orchard  it's  quirky  and  simple  and  quite 
 plain  but  there's  a  beauty  to  that  even 
 with  the  fencing  that  they  chose  which 
 at  this  point  doesn't  have  a  finish  on 
 it  and  they're  after  kind  of  a  natural 
 cedar  look  if  you  watch  our  other  video 
 on  how  to  build  a  fence  it  was  this 
 fence  and  you  can  see  how  the  color  has 
 changed  going  into  a  really  a  nice  warm 
 Cedar  tone  as  opposed  to  the  white  that 
 it  was  when  we  first  put  it  in  and  one 
 of  the  keys  to  it  weathering  in  a 
 beautiful  way  is  not  throwing  water  on 
 it  and  you  can  see  by  our  irrigation 
 system  we're  not  going  to  throw  water  on 
 it  so  we're  at  734  which  means  that 
 we've  been  watering  26  minutes  and  that 
 isn't  enough  I  want  to  fill  the  basins 
 more  you  can  see  what  happens  is  you  put 
 water  in  the  Basin  and  it  soaks  into  the 
 root  ball  right  now  the  root  ball  is  not 
 very  extensive  because  we  just  planted 
 these  trees  so  I  want  that  water  to  soak 
 all  the  way  into  the  root  ball  right  up 
 to  the  trunk  of  the  tree  we'll  keep 
 timing  it  the  whole  goal  here  is  to 
 build  an  irrigation  system  that  won't 
 need  any  maintenance  is  real  simple  to 
 operate  and  that  you  can  verify  that 
 it's  working  just  by  looking  at  it  and 
 that  is  different  than  a  lot  of  systems 
 out  there  so  we  don't  usually  leave  the 
 basins  in  a  completed  landscape  if 
 you're  in  an  area  with  a  lot  of  rain  it 
 can  retain  water  when  you  don't  want  to 
 retain  water  in  our  area  the  problem  of 
 water  sitting  there  isn't  really  very 
 applicable  because  we  don't  get  that 
 much  rain  but  it  is  something  you  should 
 be  aware  of  if  you  keep  a  basin 
 permanently  that  that's  one  of  the  worst 
 things  for  trees  is  standing  water  in 
 saturated  soil  particularly  with  high 
 temperatures  we're  going  to  show  you  one 
 tree  that  didn't  make  it  in  this 
 planting  and  I  think  that  was  the 
 problem  with  it  is  real  high 
 temperatures  and  too  much  water  we 
 generally  plant  fruit  trees  like  this 
 slightly  high  and  then  we  would  build  a 
 basin  right  when  we  plant  it  but  then  we 
 would  do  away  with  the  Basin  so  that  the 
 water  always  drains  off  and  drains  away 
 then  we  would  have  to  come  up  with  some 
 other  way  other  than  a  basin  to  water 
 that  could  be  drip  or  that  could  be 
 tubes  in  the  ground  with  bubblers  in  the 
 tubes  you  know  lots  of  different  ways  it 
 could  be  done  in  this  case  the  owners 
 really  like  the  idea  of  basins  they  like 
 the  way  they  look  that  gives  us  a  hint 
 of  how  to  design  and  Implement  an 
 irrigation  system  that  will  be  reliable 
 and  that  will  work  well  with  the  basins 
 what  we  did  is  we  used  regular  PVC  pipe 
 hard  pipe  underground  there's  no  drip 
 tubing  we  put  them  on  four  inch  pop-ups 
 so  the  sprinklers  come  on  they  pop  up 
 and  water  comes  out  the  top  each  one  of 
 those  bubblers  is  one  quarter  gallon  per 
 minute  so  at  each  tree  we  have  a  half  a 
 gallon  per  minute  being  delivered  from  a 
 bubbler  standpoint  we're  actually 
 applying  the  water  relatively  slowly 
 which  is  good  we  can  completely  saturate 
 that  soil 
 okay  so  let's  look  at  all  the  trees  and 
 talk  about  the  various  issues  with  each 
 I  wanted  to  start  with  this  pixie  crunch 
 Apple  which  is  one  of  my  favorite  apples 
 and  it's  easy  to  fit  into  small  yards 
 and  it  grows  in  a  wide  range  of  zones 
 but  it's  hard  to  find  so  we  were  ready 
 to  plant  this  little  Orchard  and  I 
 couldn't  find  pixie  crunch  so  I  ordered 
 them  online  and  you  can  order  fruit 
 trees  online  they  actually  came  out  of 
 Michigan  I  got  them  in 
 early  June  I  got  two  of  them  they  looked 
 exactly  alike  when  they  came  no  leaves 
 they  were  shipped  bare  root  and  only  one 
 of  the  two  sprouted  the  second  one  did 
 not  Sprout  and  doesn't  look  like  it's 
 going  to  sprout  although  when  they  came 
 they  looked  identical  it  reminds  me  of 
 honey  crisp  I'd  say  every  bit  is  good  a 
 little  different  flavor  but  crisp  Tartan 
 sweet  at  the  same  time  really  a 
 tremendous  Apple  the  owner  likes  fuyu 
 Persimmons  so  we  planted  several  fuyu 
 Persimmons  fuyu  is  the  hard  crisp  one 
 that  you  can  eat  like  an  apple  the  other 
 variety  is  hashia  which  is  the  variety 
 that  you  use  to  make  cookies  that  gets 
 real  soft  but  fuyu  is  more  for  fresh 
 eating  this  shows  a  bunch  of  persimmons 
 on  here  many  of  these  should  be  removed 
 because  you  can  see  their  Sunburn  and 
 you  can  see  that  they  wouldn't  ripen 
 anyhow  you  can  see  they're  starting  to 
 decline  so  heat  does  create  a  lot  of 
 problems  for  planting  but  still  we're 
 planting  365  days  a  year  here  in  this 
 case  we  dug  good  sized  holes  and  in  the 
 backfill  we  used  a  lot  of  our  blend 
 which  is  our  maximized  nourish  Basalt 
 and  optimized  the  other  thing  we  did 
 once  we  had  them  planted  I  sprayed  very 
 generously  of  our  penetrate  liquid  bio 
 tiller  right  on  the  root  ball  and  on  in 
 the  top  of  the  Basin  of  every  tree  those 
 kind  of  act  like  an  organic  way  of 
 allowing  plants  to  tolerate  heat  better 
 and  tolerate  cold  better  okay  another 
 fuyu  persimmon  doing  very  well  so  this 
 one  is  a  nectarine  and  it's  a  double 
 Delight  nectarine  which  is  a  really  good 
 nectar  and  you  can  see  these  aren't 
 going  to  size  up  there's  way  too  many  on 
 here  for  the  size  of  the  tree  this  is 
 the  time  that  they  would  ripen  these 
 should  come  off  they  should  all  come  off 
 this  one  is  not  looking  as  good  as  the 
 rest  of  the  trees  I'm  just  going  to  make 
 sure  it's  watered  properly  you  can  see 
 we  have  some  yellow  leaves  that  are 
 about  to  fall  off  most  of  them  we  can 
 see  new  growth  on  and  so  far  there's  not 
 new  growth  on  this  one  so  I  think  taking 
 off  the  fruit  would  be  my  first  step  to 
 trying  to  invigorate  this  tree  our 
 photographer  is  not  um 
 covering  much  ground  today  hey  Mr 
 Photographer  what  do  you 
 you've  got  he  must  see  value  in  that  one 
 shot  huh  yeah 
 the  other  thing  with  heat  is  to  just 
 make  sure 
 you  water  them  a  lot  and  actually  in  the 
 first  day  or  two 
 you  probably  want  to  over  water  there's 
 a  point  where  if  it's  real  hot  and  you 
 continue  to  over  water  that  then  it 
 works  against  the  tree  because  the 
 soil's  saturated  and  there's  a  lack  of 
 air  in  the  soil  it  becomes  anaerobic 
 that  can  kill  trees  and  new  plants 
 faster  than  anything  that  combination  of 
 heat  and  over  watering  now  not  in  the 
 first  day  it's  impossible  to  over  water 
 in  the  first  day  not  even  in  the  second 
 or  the  third  day  but  after  about  a  week 
 the  tendency  is  to  look  at  the  trees  and 
 if  they  just  don't  look  quite  as  perky 
 as  you  would  like  the  first  thing  you 
 can  think  of  since  it's  hot  and  you're 
 hot  and  everything  seems  miserable  hey 
 let's  water  them  I'm  going  to  really 
 care  for  them  and  I  think  that's  what 
 happened  to  the  one  tree  that  died  that 
 we  were  trying  to  make  sure  you  got 
 enough  water  and  the  soil  was  too 
 saturated  then  this  is  the  tree  it's  a 
 self  for  Turtle  Cherry  called  Stella  I 
 think  yeah  stella  cherry  doesn't  need  a 
 pollenizer  I  believe 
 when  it  was  real  hot  this  was  over 
 watered  and  stayed  saturated  so  this  is 
 a  casualty  which  planting  in  the  middle 
 of  the  summer  and  then  having  really  hot 
 weather  right  after  we  planted  losing 
 one  isn't  unheard  of  we  have  an  Alberta 
 Peach  which  is  kind  of  an  old-fashioned 
 Style  peach  this  tree  has  one  on  it  and 
 that  will  be  ripening  probably  in 
 another  month  or  so  it's  doing  well  no 
 pests  or  diseases  at  this  stage  of  the 
 tree  you  can  really  check  because  you're 
 right  at  eye  level  with  them  we  planted 
 all  of  these  semi  dwarfs  so  they  don't 
 get  too  big  and  you  can  with  aggressive 
 pruning  keep  them  at  a  fairly  low  level 
 and  I  like  that  in  a  fruit  tree  orchard 
 because  then  the  fruit  isn't  at  a  real 
 high  level  and  difficult  to  pick  and 
 then  another  fuyu  persimmon  so  we've  got 
 three  Persimmons  actually 
 I  think  we  have  a  fourth  too  and  then 
 this  is  a  Fuji  apple  Fuji  you  know  as  I 
 said  not  that  many  varieties  of  Apple 
 really  do  great  in  Fresno  Fuji  apple 
 does  fantastic  in  Fresno  and  this  one's 
 doing  great  got  a  lot  of  new  growth 
 looks  completely  happy  so  that's  what  we 
 want  them  all  to  look  like  this  uh 
 Plum  cot  which  is  a  cross  between  a  plum 
 and  an  apricot  and  I  have  never  planted 
 a  plum  cot  before  but  the  owner  found  it 
 and  this  is  the  one  that  we  had  problems 
 with  army  worms  sometimes  it's  hard  to 
 see  the  worms  because  they  blend  in  but 
 I  saw  the  damage  so  that  allowed  me  to 
 know  I  should  be  looking  carefully  at 
 what  was  causing  the  damage  and  then  we 
 picked  off  all  the  worms  and  that's  a 
 good  eradication  method  also  I  used  a 
 spinosad  organic  spray  spinosad  is  a 
 beneficial  bacteria  it's  an  organic 
 pesticide  that  works  pretty  good  on  army 
 worms  and  since  I  saw  a  pest  on  this 
 particular  tree  I  used  another  type  of 
 organic  pesticide  called  bacillus 
 thuringiensis  it  just  goes  by  BT  works 
 good  in  Orchards  like  this  where  you 
 don't  want  to  use  chemicals  we  can 
 continue  to  inspect  it  and  just  pulling 
 them  off  and 
 destroying  them  is  an  excellent  way  to 
 do  it  this  is  the  pluot  if  you  look  at 
 the  leaves  it  looks  very  much  like  the 
 plum  cot  this  one  hasn't  had  any  pest  or 
 disease  problems  we'll  see  what  the 
 difference  is  between  a  pluot  and  a  plum 
 cot  one  of  the  healthiest  looking  trees 
 is  this  strawberry  peach  you  can  see  it 
 has  lots  of  New  Growth  no  decline  at  all 
 no  sign  of  burn  no  peaches  and  maybe 
 that's  one  reason  it  looks  so  good 
 probably  is  a  good  idea  to  limit  the 
 fruit  or  eliminate  it  completely  on  new 
 trees  so  another  fuyu  persimmon  we've 
 got  lots  of  them  this  also  has  some 
 burned  Persimmons  on  it  we'll  take  those 
 off  Arctic  Supreme  white  peach  it's 
 doing  very  well  has  new  growth  nice  and 
 healthy  just  has  one  peach  on  it  that's 
 more  appropriate  for  a  new  tree  and  then 
 this  is  an  apricot  cotton  candy  apricot 
 it's  doing  well  it  does  have  new  growth 
 at  many  of  the  tips  oh  wow  this  has  a 
 plum  look  at  that  one  Plum  this  is  a 
 nubiana  plum  I  see  this  has  some  new 
 growth  happening  got  some  chlorosis 
 showing  on  the  leaf  but 
 after  this  reason  of  planting  I  really 
 don't  worry  about  that  these  are  two 
 existing  trees  that  we  planted  around 
 it's  an  apricot  and  a  fuyu  persimmon  the 
 persimmon  looks  like  it  has  a  good  crop 
 not  so  with  the  apricot  or  maybe  they 
 were 
 already  picked  but  there's  uh  none  on 
 there  right  now 
 yeah  let  me  go  I'm  gonna  go  get  the 
 708 
 and  it  is  8  12.  so 
 it's  an  hour 
 and  I'd  say 
 that's  probably  about  right  they're  not 
 full  to  the  brim  but  the  water  is 
 soaking  in  you  can  even  see  it  coming 
 outside  of  the  Basin  a  little  bit  like 
 on  this  persimmon  so  I  think  what  I 
 might  do 
 is  set  them  each  for  an  hour  or  maybe 
 even  an  hour  and  10  minutes  to  go 
 exactly  what  this  will  look  like  and 
 that's  a  good  deep  watering  if  I  did 
 that  I  think  we  could  get  by  even  on 
 these  100  degree  days  with  just  twice  a 
 week  watering  Tuesday  and  Saturday  now 
 that's  you  know  dependent  on  your  soil 
 and  what  kind  of  irrigation  system  you 
 have  but  we've  been  monitoring  this  and 
 I  think  that'll  work  good  here 
 so  that's  your  orchard  tour  let  us  know 
 if  you  have  any  questions  if  you  need 
 any  help  on  your  own  Orchard  let  us  know 
 foreign 
 so  since  this  um 
 nectarine  isn't  a 
 progressing  quite  as  well  as  I'd  like 
 I'm  going  to check  on  the  water  I'll  go 
 right  near  the  root  ball  here 
 and  let's  see 
 the  water  is  just  about  right  it's  it's 
 moist 
 pretty  good  sometimes  it's  hard  to  tell 
 if  everything  is  getting  water  properly 
 if  you  use  a  soil  probe  you  can  go  right 
 in  where  the  roots  are  next  to  the  roots 
 and  see  if  you  know  you  think  it's 
 properly  watered  and  this  tree  that  I 
 checked  is  and  this  one  that  I  thought 
 was  too  much  water  is  still  a  little  wet 
 um 
 yeah  it's  still  a  little  bit  wet  a 
 little  bit  too  wet

---

 what  flowers  can  you  plant  this  summer 
 August  through  September  August  is  a 
 transitional  month  Bridging  the  Gap 
 between  the  intense  heat  of  Summer  and 
 the  approaching  cooler  Autumn  weather 
 while  it  may  seem  counterintuitive  to 
 start  planting  during  such  a  warm  period 
 there  are  several  advantages  to  doing  so 
 the  soil  is  still  warm  and  receptive 
 allowing  roots  to  establish  themselves 
 before  the  onset  of  Colder  temperatures 
 without  further  Ado  here  are  10  flowers 
 to  welcome  into  your  garden  before  the 
 summer  is  through  bee  balm  a  colorful 
 plant  that  will  repel  mosquitoes  while 
 simultaneously  attracting  pollinators 
 plant  bee  balm  in  an  area  that  receives 
 several  hours  of  Sun  a  day  in  very  rich 
 well-draining  soil  bee  balm  is  great 
 because  it  will  grow  back  and  multiply 
 each  year 
 celosia 
 celosia  is  a  unique  and  colorful  plant 
 that  adds  interest  to  any  Garden  celosia 
 prefers  to  be  planted  in  areas  that 
 receive  full  sun  in  a  pot  or  directly 
 into  a  garden  bed  something  great  about 
 celosia  is  that  once  established  they 
 are  quite  easy  to  propagate  from  meaning 
 if  you  buy  one  plant  you  can  glean  many 
 more 
 marigolds 
 Marigold  Sprout  rather  quickly  from  seed 
 to  bloom  only  taking  about  eight  weeks 
 marigolds  do  best  when  planted  in  very 
 well  draining  soil  and  are  allowed  to 
 dry  between  waterings 
 Pro  tip  for  marigolds  is  to  water  at  the 
 base  of  the  plant  instead  of  directly  on 
 top  as  marigolds  can  be  finicky  when 
 their  leaves  are  left  wet  marigolds  are 
 also  great  at  repelling  mosquitoes  and 
 rodents  while  simultaneously  attracting 
 pollinators  like  bees  and  butterflies 
 Lantana  Lantana  is  an  extremely  hearty 
 plant  that  does  best  when  planted  in 
 full  sun  when  allowed  to  Lantana  can 
 grow  into  very  large  shrubs  Lantana  is  a 
 great  plant  to  add  to  your  garden  if  you 
 want  something  that  will  Bloom  every 
 year  and  fill  in  large  areas  in  garden 
 beds  Lantana  should  be  watered  well  when 
 first  planted  but  once  established  they 
 are  very  drought  tolerant 
 chrysanthemum  nicknamed  mums  these  large 
 blooming  Beauties  are  sun  loving  and  can 
 be  planted  in  pots  or  in  the  ground 
 though  these  flowers  do  not  live  for 
 long  they  are  quite  something  to  see  as 
 they  bloom  plant  chrysanthemums  one  and 
 a  half to  two  and  a  half  feet  apart 
 depending  on  the  size  of  the  variety 
 Zinnia 
 zinnias  our  fast-growing  drought 
 tolerant  and  easy  maintenance  flowers 
 zinnias  add  vibrant  color  to  any  Garden 
 they  are  planted  in  as  they  come  in  many 
 shades  of  magenta  yellow  orange  and 
 cream  the  best  time  to  plant  zinnia  is 
 anytime  spring  through  late  summer 
 verbena  verbena  also  known  as  verbain 
 comes  in  many  brightly  colored  Hues 
 verbena  needs  to  be  planted  in  an  area 
 that  gets  at  least  8  to  10  hours  of  Sun 
 a  day  verbena  is  known  to  be  a 
 pollinator's  favorite 
 cropsis  also  known  as  tixi  these  little 
 bursts  of  sunshine  are  native  to  the 
 United  States  Mexico  and  Canada 
 tick  seed  flowers  come  in  several 
 varieties  are  full  sun  friendly  and  a 
 great  choice  for  beginner  gardeners 
 China  Aster  different  from  average  Aster 
 the  China  Aster  continues  to  bloom  and 
 grow  long  after  other  plants  are  done 
 blooming  for  the  season  China  Asters 
 come  in  13  different  Hues  are  a 
 fantastic  choice  for  pollinators  and  is 
 an  annual 
 calendula  tearful  looking  pops  of 
 saffron  colored  blooms  calendula  has 
 long  been  used  to  make  topical  tincture 
 for  anti-inflammatory  purposes  these 
 flowers  are  also  edible  and  can  top 
 desserts  or  salads  for  a  spectacular 
 plating  calendula  can  be  planted  in  pots 
 or  in  garden  beds  and  takes  about  six  to 
 eight  weeks  to  bloom  after  an  initial 
 week  of  germination  this  time  of  year  is 
 also  a  great  time  to  prune  back  and 
 deadhead  annual  and  perennial  flowers 
 this  will  help  promote  a  second  Bloom 
 don't  forget  before  planting  in  ground 
 improve  your  existing  soil  by  mixing  in 
 compost  or  other  Rich  organic  matter  if 
 you  don't  have  access  to  compost  we 
 recommend  using  our  100  organic  people 
 and  pet  safe  soil  amendments  it's  all 
 the  great  organic  benefits  of  composting 
 right  at  your  fingertips  if  you  found 
 this  video  interesting  leave  us  a 
 comment  or  hit  the  like  button 
 [Music]

---

 [Music] 
 we've  been  asked  to  make  this  awful 
 looking  lawn  look  great  for  a  party 
 today  is  July  25th  the  party  is  in  late 
 September  so  we  have  two  months  but  what 
 do  you  think  you  think  we  can  completely 
 transform  this 
 this  lawn  really  looks  terrible  first  we 
 got  to  figure  out  what  caused  it  to  look 
 terrible 
 this  is  supposed  to  be  a  common  Bermuda 
 lawn  planted  about  10  years  ago  it's 
 mostly  Weeds  now  weeds  in  some  lawn 
 we  want  to  know  what  kind  of  lawn  it  is 
 because  that'll  give  us  a  hint  what  the 
 problem  is  if  you're  in  a  high 
 temperature  area  and  you  have  a  cool 
 season  grass  and  it's  the  middle  of 
 summer  and  you're  watering  a  lot  it's 
 very  likely  the  problem  is  fungal 
 related  on  this  lawn  it  looks  a  little 
 bit  fungal-like  but  I'm  98  sure  there's 
 no  fungal  issues  here  knowing  what  kind 
 of  lawn  it  is  very  unusual  for  a  Bermuda 
 lawn  to  have  fungal  issues  it's  not 
 impossible  but  it's  very  unusual  and 
 then  you  combine  that  with  an 
 investigation  of  the  areas  that  are  dry 
 and  everywhere  you  we  go  that's  dry  and 
 you  feel  it  or  you  put  in  a  soil  probe 
 there's  no  moisture  in  it  so  I'm 
 reasonably  sure  a  big  part  of  this 
 problem  is  a  poorly  operating  irrigation 
 system  that's  out  of  adjustment  and  that 
 isn't  doing  what  it's  supposed  to  do  if 
 it  was  a  fungal  disease  we'd  probably 
 find  that  the  areas  that  look  bad  are 
 wet  and  sometimes  too  wet  and  that  lack 
 of  exchange  of  air  and  water  and  high 
 temperatures  causes  a  fungal  disease  I 
 don't  see  that  here  I  see  dry  areas 
 One  Professional  told  him  that  it  needed 
 gypsum  and  needed  to  be  aerated  now 
 aeration  is  is  kind  of  the  opposite  of 
 what's  wrong  here  aeration  is  when  you 
 have  a  thick  buildup  of  thatch  that's 
 when  aerating  is  really  effective  if  you 
 look  we  have  no  buildup  of  thatch  here 
 we  have  we  have  dirt  because  the  lawn 
 hasn't  grown  gypsum  is  thought  of  as 
 kind  of  you  see  anything  wrong  with 
 anything  and  you  say  put  gypsum  on  it 
 gypsum  can  be  very  effective  in  certain 
 situations  and  it  can  look  like  a 
 miracle  in  certain  situations  but 
 specifically  you  use  gypsum  when  the 
 calcium  in  your  soil  is  low  and  the  salt 
 in  the  soil  is  high  in  this  case  I  don't 
 think  either  condition  is  prevalent  so 
 if  we  aerated  this  and  we  put  a  nice 
 application  of  gypsum 
 it  wouldn't  change  anything  it  would 
 look  just  like  this  after  we're  done 
 right  now  obviously  it's  not  getting 
 proper  care  and  my  analysis  is  the 
 watering  and  the  feeding  of  the  soil  are 
 the  two  biggest  offenders  here  so  we're 
 going  to  address  both  of  those  right  off 
 the  bat  but  whether  it's  water  whether 
 it's  poor  management  of  any  kind  whether 
 it's  a  fungus  our  solution  is  going  to 
 be  very  similar  which  is  we're  going  to 
 feed  the  lawn  we're  going  to  feed  the 
 soil  really  focused  on  feeding  the  soil 
 and  we're  going  to  water  it  properly  and 
 we're  going  to  mow  it  properly  now  let's 
 say  maybe  I'm  wrong  and  maybe  we  find 
 out  this  is  a  fungal  disease  well  the 
 reason  I'm  comfortable  with  our  protocol 
 here  is  I  would  do  exactly  the  same 
 thing  I'm  going  to  get  this  irrigation 
 working  just  as  perfectly  as  I  can  and 
 I'm  going  to  infuse  the  soil  with 
 beneficial  life  it's  that  beneficial 
 life  that  can  kill  and  defeat  the 
 current  fungus  because  beneficial  fungi 
 is  way  stronger  than  the  bad  fungus  I'm 
 not  even  sure  what  that's  called  is  my 
 problem  there  is  spurge  and  a  lot  of 
 crab  grass  as  I  walk  through  it  I  see 
 different  weeds  here  and  there  but  I'd 
 say  the  predominant  weed  is  crab  grass 
 and  if  that's  all  they  had  was  crab 
 grass 
 and  it  was  watered  properly  it  wouldn't 
 look  that  bad  but  even  the  crabgrass 
 won't  grow  in  some  spots  because  of  the 
 lack  of  water  Let's  ignore  the  fact  for 
 now  that 
 about  60  percent  of  this  lawn  right  now 
 is  weeds  if  we  get  the  soil  healthy  and 
 we  water  it  properly  and  we  mow  it 
 properly  many  of  those  weed  problems 
 will  disappear  my  idea  is  let's  try  to 
 do  everything  properly  we'll  get  rid  of 
 this 
 Brown  pattern  that's  all  over  and  then 
 after  we've  done  that  if  there's  still 
 certain  weeds  that  are  a  problem  then  we 
 identify  the  least  toxic  way  to  get  rid 
 of  them 
 I  didn't  know  you  could  turn  it  off  at 
 the  head 
 that's  what  right  in  the  middle  there 
 huh 
 some  do  have  it  some  though  oh  so  these 
 sprinklers  in  this  big  open  area  are  all 
 the  same  they're  irritrol  i-20s  which  is 
 a  big  gear  driven  sprinkler  which  we  can 
 use  because  there's  good  pressure  at  the 
 site  the  spacing  is  good  we  want 
 head-to-head  coverage  so  we  need  spacing 
 between  25  and  30  feet 
 but  what  I  noticed  is  we  have  terrible 
 coverage  and  that's  mostly  because  the 
 nozzles  were  either  split  or  broken  or 
 the  wrong  nozzle  was  in  there  or  most 
 commonly  and  this  is  a  common  problem 
 that  I  see  it's  not  well  understood  that 
 almost  all  of  these  heads  work  best  if 
 they're  almost  all  the  way  open  this  dry 
 area  here  you  might  be  tempted  to  put  a 
 nozzle  and  turn  the  breakup  screw  way 
 down  since  it's  so  close  to  the 
 sprinkler  but  that's  not  how  you  do  it 
 what  you  do  is  you  get  all  the 
 sprinklers  working  properly  and  you  get 
 all  these  sprinklers  around  it  spraying 
 into  this  area  not  always  at  the 
 sprinkler  closest  to  it  in  this  case 
 they  put  a  low  angle  nozzle  on  that 
 because  they  were  trying  to  get  this 
 spot  but  we're  changing  the  nozzles 
 we're  adjusting  the  nozzles  we're 
 replacing  some  nozzles  and  really  that's 
 the  main  thing  we're  doing  here  we  think 
 that  by  doing  that  we're  going  to  change 
 this  coverage  dramatically  now  that's 
 not  always  the  case  when  I  analyze  an 
 irrigation  system  sometimes  I  find 
 pressures  bad  there's  not  enough  heads 
 not  enough  valves  you  know  it's  just 
 it's  going  to  take  a  major  renovation  in 
 this  case  the  basics  were  pretty  good 
 we're  going  to  monitor  this  system  up 
 until  the  party  so  I'm  going  to  come 
 here  on  a  day  that  it  Waters  and  I'm 
 going  to  look  at  the  result  I'm  going  to 
 see  how  the  lawn  looks  I'm  going  to  see 
 if  I  can  detect  dry  areas  if  I  have  just 
 one  little  dry  area  that  means  I  need  to 
 make  a  change  to  a  nozzle  if  I  have  dry 
 areas  everywhere  that  means  I  probably 
 need  a  little  more  time  and  there's  some 
 other  issues  like  like  we're  addressing 
 right  now  so  the  timing  doesn't  have  a 
 simple  answer  you're  probably  going  to 
 be  better  at  it  than  anybody  as  long  as 
 you're  paying  attention  and  you're 
 looking  at  the  results 
 at  the  same  time  we  get  the  sprinklers 
 working  properly  we're  going  to  feed  the 
 soil  and  feed  the  lawn  with  our  products 
 we're  applying  our  blend  which  is  our 
 optimized  maximized  nourish  biosol  and 
 our  penetrate  liquid  bio  tiller  and 
 that's  going  to  change  everything  pretty 
 quickly  I'm  going  to  get  this  soil  just 
 as  healthy  as  it  can  be  and  that  will 
 also  help  with  moisture  retention  which 
 obviously  we  have  a  problem  with  or  I 
 think  we  have  a  problem  with  we'll  see 
 if  my  theory  is  borne  out  by  how  fast  it 
 responds 
 if  you  want  to  see  how  this  mystery 
 comes  out  and  whether  we  have  this 
 looking  great  for  the  party  or  not 
 please  subscribe  to  our  Channel  and 
 you'll  catch  all  of  our  videos  on  this 
 topic  plus  a  lot  of  other  good  ones  that 
 we've  got  coming  up